
<!-- ** BEGIN: header.jsp ** //-->






















<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3c.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
<head>
    

   
    <link href="/includes/css/menu.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <link href="/includes/css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <!--[if lt IE 6]><link href="/includes/css/style5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <!--[if gte IE 5]><link href="/includes/css/style6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <link href="/includes/css/tabs.css"  rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/tabs.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/menu.js"></script>
   

    

    
        <title>The Java Community Process(SM) Program - communityprocess - ec-public</title>
    

    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>



<body onload="P7_initPM(0,1,0,0,-1)">

    <a name="top"></a>

    <div id="header">
	<div id="logo">
		<a href="/en/home/index"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="Java Community Process" height="81" width="151"></a>
	</div>
	<div id="tools">
		<div class="search">
			<form name="search" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" onsubmit="return validate_search()">
				<input name="id" value="Search JSRs" size="16" class="form" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
				<a href="javascript:document.search.submit()" onclick="return validate_search()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
			</form>
		</div>
		<div class="tools">
			<a href="/en/press/pressroom">Press Room</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399">Get Java Here</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<!-- <a href="javascript:void(0)">Print Format</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp; -->
		</div>

	</div>
	<div style="clear: right;"></div>

        

	<div class="topbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="3" width="154"></div>
	<div id="update"> </div>
    </div>


    

        <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Table ** //-->

        <table width="100%" border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">

            <tr>

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Navigation Column ** //-->
                <td width="150" id="leftcontent" valign="top">
                    <!-- Navigation Placeholder //-->

                    

                    <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>

        <!-- begin find JSRs form -->
        <!-- IMPORTANT! do not convert this form to Struts < html : form > tag.  javascript change of form.action property fails. -->
        <img src="/images/hd_find-jsrs.gif" alt="Find JSRs" height="18" width="150">
        <form name="findjsr" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" class="pt5" onsubmit="return validate_findjsr()">
            <input name="id" size="18" class="form" value="Search JSRs" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
	    <a href="javascript:document.findjsr.submit()" onclick="return validate_findjsr()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
        </form><br><br>

        <!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->

        <ul id="p7PMnav">
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/platform">JSRs by Platform</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/tech">JSRs by Technology</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/stage">JSRs by Stage</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/ec">JSRs by Committee</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/all">List of All JSRs</a></li>

            <!--end find JSRs form -->
            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--begin my JCP -->
            <img src="/images/hd_my-jcp.gif" alt="My JCP" height="18" width="150">
            

          <form name="login" method="get" action="/en/user/login" >
            <input name="Sign-in" type="submit" title="Sign-in" value="Sign-in" />
          </form>

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="3" alt=""></div>
            <div class="noNav">
                <a href="/en/user/register">Register for Site</a>
            </div>

             <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>
           <div class="noNav" style="color: #666666; padding: 0;">
              Use of JCP site is subject to the
              <a href="/en/home/terms" style="display:inline;padding: 0">JCP Terms of Use</a> and the
              <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html" style="display:inline;padding: 0" href="">Oracle Privacy Policy</a>
          </div>

            

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="25" alt=""></div>

            <!--begin JCP info -->
            <img src="/images/hd_jcp-info.gif" alt="JCP Info" height="18" width="150">

            <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview" class="p7PMtrg">About JCP</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview">Program Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/jcp2">JCP Process Document</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/calendar">Calendar</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/members">JCP Members</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/committee">Executive Committee</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/elections">Elections</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/participation/overview" class="p7PMtrg">Get Involved</a>
		<ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/overview">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/membership">Becoming a JCP Member</a></li>
		</ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contents" class="p7PMtrg">Community Resources</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/contents">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tutorials">Tutorials</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/multimedia">JCP Podcasts</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/guide">Spec Lead Guide</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tdk">TCK Tool & Info</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/license_reference">License Reference</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/press/pmo" class="p7PMtrg">Community News</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/pmo">News</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/news/awards/awards_main">Programs &amp; Awards</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/releases">Press Releases</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/success">Success Stories</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/introduction/faq">FAQ</a></li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a></li>

            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--[if lte IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav a{height:1em;}#p7PMnav li{height:1em;float:left;clear:both;width:100%}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav li{clear:none;}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 7]><style>#p7PMnav a{zoom:100%;}#p7PMnav li{float:left;clear:both;width:100%;}</style><![endif]-->
        </ul>

        

        <!--begin ad space -->
        <div class="ads">
            <a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399" target="_blank"><img style="display: ;" src="/images/ad_banner2.gif" alt="Ad Banner" border="1" height="70" width="150"></a>
        </div>
        <!--end ad space -->

<!-- ** Menu End ** //-->
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>

    

                    &nbsp;<br>
                    <img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="1" height="150"><br>

              



                </td>
                <!-- ** END: Navigation Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Gutter Column ** //-->
		<td width="10" nowrap><img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="10" height="1"></td>
                <!-- ** END: Gutter Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Column ** //-->
                <td width="100%" valign="top">

    
<script type="text/javascript">

String.prototype.trim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+|\s+$/g,"");
}
String.prototype.ltrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+/,"");
}
String.prototype.rtrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/\s+$/,"");
}

function validate_search() {
	if (document.search.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.search.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function validate_findjsr() {
	if (document.findjsr.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.findjsr.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function nullify_if_equal(field, str) {
	// alert("val=" + field.value);
	if (field.value == str) {
		field.value = "";
	}
}

</script>
<!-- ** END: header.jsp ** //-->






<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JCP EC minutes (public): May 13-14 2014</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">Executive Committee Meeting Minutes<br />
  for May 13-14 2014</h1>
<p align="center"><em>version 0.2: May 29 2014</em></p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>May 13-14, 2014</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Face-to-face, London, England,  hosted by Goldman Sachs</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>[<a href="PMO-topics-May-2014.pdf">PMO Presentation</a>]</li>
  <li>Personnel changes </li>
  <li>Action Item review</li>
  <li><a href="EC_Stats_May2014.pdf">EC Stats</a></li>
  <li>15-year anniversary party</li>
  <li>Spec Lead presentations
    <ul>
      <li><a href="JSR359-ECReview.pdf">JSR 359: SIP Servlet 2.0</a> - Binod PG</li>
      <li><a href="20140513-JSR343ReviewForJCPEC.pdf">JSR 343: Java Message Service 2.0</a> - Nigel Deakin </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>JSR mentorship (follow-up on request for mentorship from Jody Sharpe)</li>
  <li>EC meeting times</li>
  <li><a href="IndividualsWGUpdateMay2014.pdf">JSR 364 Expert Group session</a></li>
  <li>JSR 358 Expert Group session </li>
  <ul>
    <li>Feedback from Oracle Legal and management on the <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf">IP-Flow document</a></li>
    <li>Discussion on the <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2014-04-15/UPL.pdf">UPL</a> with Jim Wright</li>
  </ul>
  <li><a href="JCPmembership_May2014.pdf">Membership renewal report</a></li>
  <li>Goldman Sachs presentation: <a href="GS_Collections_May2014.pdf">The GS Collections Framework</a></li>
  <li>EC discussions of JSR ballot results</li>
  <li>Potential process changes as a result of JSR 48 </li>
  <li><a href="UNHCR-WFP-case-study.pdf">UNHCR/WFP refugees system</a> (Mohamed Taman)</li>
  <li>JMaghreb 3.0 (Mohamed Taman) </li>
  <li><a href="Adopt_a_JSR_Brasil_2014.pdf">Adopt-a-JSR Brazil update</a> (Bruno Souza)</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<table border="1" width="50%">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center"><strong>Tuesday May 13</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
      <li>Patrick Curran, Heather Vancura</li>
    </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>Executive Committee </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
          <li>ARM &#8211; Paul Manfrini &#8211; present</li>
          <li>Azul Systems &#8211; Gil Tene &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li class="red">CloudBees &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
          <li>Credit Suisse &#8211; Scott Baldry &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>Eclipse &#8211; Mike Milinkovich <em>&#8211; present</span></em></li>
          <li class="red">Ericsson &#8211; <em class="red">excused</em></li>
          <li>Freescale &#8211;  Maulin Patel, Greg Hemstreet &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Gemalto M2M &#8211; <em>Thomas Lampart &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; John Weir, Donald Raab &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present </em> </li>
          <li>IBM &#8211; Mike Spencer (in person), Steve Wolfe and Vito Spatafora (by phone) &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">Intel &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
          <li>Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</li>
          <li>London Java Community &#8211; James Gough&#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
          <li>Morocco JUG &#8211; Mohamed Taman &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Nokia &#8211; <em>Adamu Haruna &#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
          <li>Oracle &#8211; Anish Karmarkar, Calinel Pasteanu &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>RedHat &#8211; Scott Stark &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">SAP &#8211; <em>not present</em></li>
          <li>Software AG &#8211; Alex Snaps &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>SouJava &#8211; Bruno Souza &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>TOTVS &#8211; David Britto &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">Twitter &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
          <li>V2COM &#8211; Leonardo Lima &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        </ul>
      <p>Total attendance: 20 of 25 voting members</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
      <td nowrap="nowrap">Since 75% of the EC's 25 voting members were present,
        the EC was <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> on this day</td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<table border="1" width="50%">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center"><strong>Wednesday May 14</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><ul>
        <li>Patrick Curran</li>
      </ul></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><div align="center"><strong>Executive Committee </strong></div></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><ul>
        <li>ARM &#8211; Paul Manfrini &#8211; present</li>
        <li>Azul Systems &#8211; Gil Tene &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
        <li class="red">CloudBees &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
        <li class="red">Credit Suisse &#8211; <em class="red">excused</em></li>
        <li>Eclipse &#8211; Mike Milinkovich <em>&#8211; present</span></em></li>
        <li class="red">Ericsson &#8211; <em class="red">excused</em></li>
        <li>Freescale &#8211;  Maulin Patel, Greg Hemstreet &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Gemalto M2M &#8211; <em>Thomas Lampart &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; John Weir, Donald Raab &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present </em></li>
        <li>IBM &#8211; Mike Spencer (in person), Steve Wolfe (by phone) &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li class="red">Intel &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
        <li>Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</li>
        <li>London Java Community &#8211; James Gough&#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Morocco JUG &#8211; Mohamed Taman &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Nokia &#8211; <em>Adamu Haruna &#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
        <li>Oracle &#8211; Anish Karmarkar, Calinel Pasteanu &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
        <li>RedHat &#8211; Scott Stark &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li class="red">SAP &#8211; <em>not present</em></li>
        <li>Software AG &#8211; Alex Snaps &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>SouJava &#8211; Bruno Souza &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>TOTVS &#8211; David Britto &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li class="red">Twitter &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
        <li>V2COM &#8211; Leonardo Lima &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Total attendance: 19 of 25 voting members</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td nowrap="nowrap">Since 75% of the EC's 25 voting members were present,
        the EC was <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> on this day</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h3>Changes in status as a result of attendance at this meeting</h3>
<p>The&nbsp;<a href="/en/procedures/ec_standing_rules">EC Standing Rules</a>&nbsp;state the following penalties for non-attendance at EC meetings (note that those who participate in face-to-face meetings by phone are officially counted as absent):</p>
<ul>
  <li>Missing two meetings in a row results in a loss of voting privileges until two consecutive meetings have been attended.</li>
  <li>Missing five meetings in a row, or missing two-thirds of the meetings in any consecutive 12-month period results in loss of the EC seat.</li>
</ul>
<p> Since SAP missed both the April and May meetings they have now lost their voting privileges.</p>
<h3>Action Item review</h3>
<p>See the <a href="May-2014-ActionItems.html">Action Item tracking file</a>.</p>
<h3>EC Stats</h3>
<p>Heather presented the usual <a href="EC_Stats_May2014.pdf">EC stats</a>. </p>
<h3>15-year anniversary party</h3>
<p>Heather reminded EC members about the JCP anniversary party scheduled for June 18. An AI was logged for her to add this event to the calendar on JCP.org.</p>
<h3>JSR 359: SIP Servlet 2.0</h3>
<p>Binod PG gave an overview on JSR 359: SIP Servlet 2.0 (see <a href="JSR359-ECReview.pdf">the presentation</a> for details). During the discussion that followed John Weir asked why the JSR had not been made broader, to cover additional protocols such as XMPP. Binod responded that the Expert Group had thought about this, but decided that since this is a &quot;legacy JSR&quot; they would stick with the original more limited scope.</p>
<h3>JSR 343: Java Message Service 2.0</h3>
<p>Nigel Deakin presented an overview of JSR 343: Java Message Service 2.0 (see <a href="20140513-JSR343ReviewForJCPEC.pdf">the presentation</a> for details), focusing on community participation. Patrick commented that the statistics Nigel provided on mailing-list participation were very helpful.</p>
<p>Nigel expressed disappointment at the relative lack of participation from several members of the Expert Group. EC members explained that it is not unusual in the standards-development world for the majority of the work to be done by a minority of the participants.</p>
<p>During a discussion on participation Patrick suggested that the JSR 364 proposal to add a section to JSR pages where Affiliate members could be recognized as <em>Contributors </em>to the JSR could usefully be extended to Full Members. An AI has been opened to track this suggestion. </p>
<p>Nigel pointed out that there is a need to standardize on similar messaging APIs in languages other than Java. After a brief discussion members agreed that it would not be appropriate to attempt such standardization through the JCP - any such standards would have to be developed elsewhere.</p>
<h3>JSR mentorship</h3>
<p>  Patrick reported (see the <a href="PMO-topics-May-2014.pdf">PMO presentation</a>) that last month we received a  JSR proposal from a JCP member (Jody Sharpe) who requested mentoring in  the process of submitting and leading a JSR. The LJC volunteered to  talk to him. Jim Gough reported that after reviewing the JSR proposal  and talking to the submitter they recommended that rather than  proceeding directly to a JSR they create an open-source project and try  to build a community of support.<br />
  <br />
  We then reviewed possible process changes to encourage others to ask for  help. Patrick suggested that rather than introduce a formal Incubator  process we adopt a more informal process whereby on receiving JSR  submissions the PMO would - if these seemed to be incomplete or in need  of guidance - refer them to the EC for review rather than submitting  them directly for a JSR Approval Ballot. During any such EC review EC  members would discuss the proposal and would assign a &quot;mentor&quot; to work  with the submitter as the LJC had worked with Jody Sharpe. EC members  supported this proposal. An AI has been filed to encourage the PMO to  adopt this suggestion.</p>
<h3>EC meeting times</h3>
<p> Patrick asked whether now that we have no EC members who must call-in  from China or Korea  we should change the regular meeting time  from 7:00 am to 8:00 or 9:00 am for the convenience of those based in California. Several members pointed out that this  would make the meetings less convenient for those based in Europe and after a brief discussion we decided to make no changes.</p>
<h3>JSR 364 Expert Group session</h3>
<p>Heather reported on the activities of the Individuals Working Group (see <a href="IndividualsWGUpdateMay2014.pdf">the presentation</a> for details).</p>
<p>We first discussed the proposed wording on Membership Levels that Patrick composed and <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jcpnext4/Meeting%20Materials/MembershipLevels.html">posted as a comment</a> to <a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JCPNEXT4-1">Issue #1: Add a section in the Process Document for Membership</a>. <br />
  <br />
On the question of standard Terms of Use for all JSR projects Mike  Milinkovich suggested that we ought to make an exception for Eclipse  projects since they already have their own Terms of Use. <br />
<br />
It was suggested that in the section on Partner Members the wording &quot;Individual  JUG members must join as Affiliates if they wish to do more than act as  Observers&quot; should be clarified since the proposal specifies that  Partner Members (in their role as as &quot;organizational members&quot;) will have  more rights than Observers. Issue #1 has been commented as a reminder.<br />
<br />
It was suggested that we need to create a simple table that that we  should create a simple table t defining the different membership roles,  specifying who qualifies for each, and listing the obligations and  benefits that are incurred for each. Even if we don't include this table  in the Process Document we could post it on JCP.org as a guide to  potential members. A comment has been added to Issue #1 to track this  suggestion.<br />
<br />
Someone asked how we would track people as they change employers. We  decided that we need to define a list of transitions (leave employer,  join new employer, etc.) and define the notifications that should  accompany these transitions. (Primarily these will be obligations that  the member should inform the PMO.) We also decided that we should ask  employed individuals to register with their employer's email address to  make it easier for the PMO to track changes in their status. An AI has been filed for Patrick to log an issue for this.<br />
<br />
Gil Tene suggested that we should not make universities a special case -  we should simply ask professors for a &quot;strengthened Exhibit B&quot; just as  we will ask other employed individuals who wish to join as full members.  Patrick responded that he wasn't sure this would work, but agreed that  we should look into it, and that a symmetric relationship would be  ideal.<br />
</p>
<p>We then discussed the document - again prepared by Patrick - on the &quot;strengthened Exhibit B&quot;. This was  <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jcpnext4/Meeting%20Materials/ExhibitB.html">posted as a comment</a> to <a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JCPNEXT4-23">Issue #23: Problems when non-member companies encourage their employees to join as individuals</a>.</p>
<p>Scott Jameson warned that  even if we those who sign this document to assert that they own the IP  that they will contribute many developers will not necessarily  understand that implications of what they are signing. Someone else  responded that this situation would be no different from the cases in which developers sign contributor agreements for open-source projects.<br />
  <br />
Gil Tene argued that there should be no difference between the IP  commitments made in Exhibit B and those made in the JSPA. Patrick  responded that under these circumstances the Exhibit B would seem to be  redundant, since the employers could just as easily sign the full JSPA  and allow their employees to operate under their membership. Gil  responded that Exhibit B would still be simpler than the JSPA (since it  wouldn't need to cover the Spec Lead's obligations) and therefore it might be easier to sign. Bruno Souza agreed with Gil.<br />
<br />
Scott Jameson suggested that for everyone patent grants should be  royalty free (not RAND) for every JSR in which a member participates.  Gil Tene agreed. Mike Milinkovich argued that &quot;RAND is obsolete&quot;.<br />
<br />
We discussed the problem of aligning the new Exhibit B with the expected  contents of a revised JSPA which would not be completed until after we  expect JSR 364 to close. Several members argued that the task of  defining the contents of Exhibit B should be passed to the IP Working  Group. They should try to anticipate the direction that will be taken  with the new JSPA and incorporate those terms into a new Exhibit B. The  default fallback position should be that Exhibit B incorporates the same  IP commitments as the existing JSPA. We recognized that whatever terms  are incorporated into Exhibit B these will probably need to be modified  through a maintenance release of JSR 364 once JSR 358 completes and a new JSPA is introduced.</p>
<h3>  JSR 358 Expert Group session </h3>
<p>Patrick then introduced the JSR 358 Expert Group session. Jim Wright joined by phone.<br />
  <br />
Patrick stated that he had discussed the <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf">IP-Flow document</a> with  Oracle Legal and management. He explained that while they had expressed  no serious concerns about the second half of the document (addressing  Essential Patents) they had asked for more information (&quot;what problem  are you     trying to solve?&quot;) about the proposal for a flat IP-flow.<br />
<br />
Patrick asked Steve Wolfe, as the original     author of the flat-IP proposal, to elaborate. Steve noted that we are     concerned about declining membership and decreased diversity of     contributors and Spec Leads.&nbsp; He argued that although the <em>hub-and-spoke model</em> was acceptable (and perhaps even     advanced) in the 1990s, is not familiar nor desirable to today's     developer community, which is more accustomed to a flatter,     collaborative environment. <br />
<br />
At this point Steve expressed concerns about the presence of Jim Wright -  an Oracle lawyer - during a discussion at which other parties' lawyers  were not present. In response Patrick suggested that we postpone further  discussion on this topic until the next day (when Jim would not be  present) and instead move on to discuss Jim's Universal Permissive  License proposal. He cautioned Jim to restrict himself to factual rather  than legal statements, and not to express opinions.<br />
<br />
Jim summarized the current situation with the UPL proposal: the     Free Software Foundation had reviewed it and agreed that it is compatible with     the GPL; it had also been reviewed and discussed by others, and is     pending review and approval by the <a href="http://opensource.org/">OSI</a>. Jim said he believed that all     questions had been answered to the satisfaction     of those who asked them.<br />
<br />
Someone asked for a clarification of the context of this proposal - why was the original proposal     (for RIs to be licensed under one of three open-source licenses: Apache, GPL, and Eclipse) <br />
dropped? Jim responded that none of the original three licenses is     compatible with re-licensing on both commercial and GPL terms. Scott     Jameson said the the new proposal was unacceptable to HP because its patent grants are too broad.<br />
<br />
Patrick asked the EC whether we there was agreement on the premise that  Oracle couldn't take code licensed under any of the three  originally-proposed licenses     into the platform. He then specifically asked whether members agree  that     Eclipse-licensed code cannot be redistributed under another license.     Mike Milinkovich responded Eclipse-licensed RIs have already been  incorporated into the platform. Patrick responded that he know only of  the EclipseLink project (which implemented the RI for <a href="/en/jsr/detail.id.338.html">JSR 338: Java Persistence 2.1</a>) and which was dual-licensed     under Eclipse and BSD specifically in order to permit its inclusion into the Java platform. Mike noted that <a href="/en/jsr/detail.id.291.html">JSR 291: Dynamic Component Support for Java SE</a> was also released under the Eclipse license, but admitted that this was a standalone JSR (never incorporated into the platform).<br />
<br />
Mike went on to argue that a     monoculture of only one license would be unhealthy, and argued that  it must be possible to develop RIs elsewhere than OpenJDK). He pointed  out that Apache will never agree to license their     projects under any other license and that the UPL proposal therefore  excludes the possibility of RIs being developed as Apache projects. He  also said that we shouldn't     assume that Eclipse will be willing to adopt the UPL - the chance of  this     is only 50%.<br />
<br />
Mike also pointed out that the UPL proposal would also make it     impossible to incorporate previously-developed code (code already in     existence today, or code derived from that) into the platform since     to do so it would be necessary to contact every contributor and to     persuade them to agree to dual-license the output under the original     license and UPL. Innovation happens outside of the JCP and the UPL licensing proposal cannot be reconciled with that fact.<br />
<br />
Mike concluded that if we don't fix these problems Java will become  obsolete. He argued that the root cause of the problem we face is  Oracle's desire to commercially relicense the     source-code for the platform but agreed that he doesn't have a     solution. <br />
<br />
Steve Wolfe argued that Oracle incorporates Apache-licensed code  today. He also suggested that it might be difficult to mix together  different UPL-licensed code bases due to differences and potential  incompatibilities between differing <em>Larger-works.txt</em> files are mixed <br />
<br />
We agreed that we should continue these discussions in IP Working     Group meetings when all interested parties can bring their lawyers. Patrick agreed to schedule such meetings.<br />
<br />
We then adjourned for the day.<br />
</p>
<p>On Wednesday we returned to the flat-IP discussion and tackled it     from the perspective of examining different use-cases in order to see how the flat-IP flow proposal would affect them (whether     the proposal would simplify things or make them more complicated).     We came up with several useful examples:<br />
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Transferring IP from one Spec Lead to another while a JSR is         in progress (perhaps because the original Spec Lead loses         interest and the JSR goes dormant).</li>
  <li>Transferring IP from one Spec Lead to another after a JSR is         completed (for example due to bankruptcy as in the Siemens,         BenQ, Qisda case several years ago).</li>
  <li>Incorporating work developed elsewhere without the need to         create &quot;side-letters&quot; (see JSRs 235 and 236), making it easier         to <em>implement then standardize</em> rather than - as today -         <em>standardize then implement</em>.</li>
</ul>
<p>We agreed that this use-case-driven approach is helpful, and that we should continue the discussion in the IP Working       Group.<br />
</p>
<p>Finally, Scott addressed a remark that Patrick had made earlier  during the discussion - that we have to be careful what proposals we put  on the       table because of their possible effects on ongoing litigation.  Patrick reminded EC members that he and Don Deutsch had raised this  question at the very beginning of the JSR 358 discussions,       and that they have regularly checked back with Oracle Legal, who  have not so far prohibited us from pursuing our discussions. Scott responded that there would be no point in us continuing to work       on JSPA changes if at the end of the day we have to put       everything on hold for two or more years. Patrick responded that under those circumstances we might need to spin off yet another JSR to focus solely on Process Document changes. He agreed to check again with Oracle Legal.</p>
<p>Patrick concluded that we still have plenty of work to keep us busy:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Further discussions (with lawyers present) on the UPL</li>
  <li>Pursuing the use-case examination of the flat-IP proposal</li>
  <li>Proposing a new (&quot;strengthened&quot;) Exhibit B</li>
</ul>
<p>He promised to start up the IP Working Group meetings again to address these topics.</p>
<h3>Membership renewal report</h3>
<p>Patrick presented a report on the PMO's ongoing efforts to clean up our membership database (see t<a href="JCPmembership_May2014.pdf">he presentation</a> for details). He reported that the latest (and last) phase involves contacting all our  individual members to ensure that we have up-to-date Exhibit B's from  their employers. He noted that many of the individual members in our  database have &quot;lapsed&quot; and are no longer interested in continuing their  membership (many of them cannot even be contacted). When the process is  completed the PMO expects that the &quot;true&quot; number of individual members  will be about four hundred (compared with the approximately 1200 entries  in our database). The PMO will then require individual members to renew  their membership each year in order to ensure that our records remain  accurate and up to date. In response to a query from Werner Keil Patrick confirmed that after the renewal process is completed the <a href="/en/participation/members">online membership list</a> would be updated to reflect the new &quot;clean&quot; state of the database.</p>
<h3>The GS Collections Framework</h3>
<p>Donald Raab gave a detailed presentation on the  The GS Collections Framework. See the <a href="GS_Collections_May2014.pdf">presentation</a> for details.</p>
<h3>EC discussions of JSR ballot results</h3>
<p>In the interests of time this topic was postponed to a future meeting.</p>
<h3>Potential process changes as a result of JSR 48</h3>
<p>Patrick briefly presented the background on this matter (see the <a href="PMO-topics-May-2014.pdf">PMO presentation</a> for details) and suggested that we ought not to spend a lot of effort trying to solve a problem that is likely to recur only very infrequently. Mike DeNicola had previously suggested that we modify the <em>JSR Deadlines</em> section of the Process Document to specify a maximum amount of time between Proposed Final Draft and Final Approval Ballot and he agreed to file  a JSR 358 issue to this effect. (An AI has been filed to track this.)</p>
<p>Patrick suggested that future occurrences of this problem could be avoided if the PMO brought things to the attention of the EC when long-dormant JSRs come back to life, initiating a discussion between the Spec Lead and the EC before any additional materials were submitted for review. He agreed to incorporate this suggestion into the PMO's procedures.  (An AI has been filed to track this.)</p>
<h3>UNHCR/WFP refugees system </h3>
<p>Mohammed Taman presented a case-study of a system his company has developed for the UN to enable registered refugees in Egypt to obtain cash and food benefits electronically (see <a href="UNHCR-WFP-case-study.pdf">the presentation</a> for details). EC members responded with enthusiasm to this interesting use of Java. Mohammed concluded by inviting EC members to participate in the <a href="http://www.jmaghreb.io/en/">JMaghreb conference</a> in Casablanca later in the year.</p>
<h3>Adopt-a-JSR Brazil update</h3>
<p>Bruno Souza gave a presentation developed by several members of Sou Java that provided an update on the Adopt-a-JSR program in Brazil (see <a href="Adopt_a_JSR_Brasil_2014.pdf">the presentation</a> for details). EC members were impressed by the range of activities and congratulated Bruno and SouJava on the success of the program.</p>
<h3>Adjourn</h3>
<p>Patrick thanked Goldman Sachs for their hospitality and the meeting adjourned.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body></html>


<!-- ** BEGIN: footer.jsp ** //-->








</td>
</tr>
</table>

<!-- ** END: Content Table ** //-->

<!-- ** BEGIN: Footer Table ** //-->

<div id="footer" style="clear: both;">
    <div class="footleft">
        <a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a>
    </div>
	
    <div class="botbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="23" width="1"></div>

    <div class="footleft2">
         &copy; 2019, Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. 
        <a href="/en/home/terms">Terms of Use</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html">Privacy Policy</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/third-party-trademarks/third-party-trademarks-078568.html">Trademarks</a>
    </div>

    <div class="footright">
        <img src="/images/common/logo_oracle_footer.gif" alt="Oracle Corporation" height="22" width="91">
    </div>

    <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="30" width="1"></div>
</div>

<!-- ** END: Footer Table ** //-->



<!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->



</body>
</html>
<!-- ** END: footer.jsp ** //-->

