
<!-- ** BEGIN: header.jsp ** //-->






















<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3c.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
<head>
    

   
    <link href="/includes/css/menu.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <link href="/includes/css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <!--[if lt IE 6]><link href="/includes/css/style5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <!--[if gte IE 5]><link href="/includes/css/style6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <link href="/includes/css/tabs.css"  rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/tabs.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/menu.js"></script>
   

    

    
        <title>The Java Community Process(SM) Program - communityprocess - ec-public</title>
    

    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>



<body onload="P7_initPM(0,1,0,0,-1)">

    <a name="top"></a>

    <div id="header">
	<div id="logo">
		<a href="/en/home/index"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="Java Community Process" height="81" width="151"></a>
	</div>
	<div id="tools">
		<div class="search">
			<form name="search" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" onsubmit="return validate_search()">
				<input name="id" value="Search JSRs" size="16" class="form" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
				<a href="javascript:document.search.submit()" onclick="return validate_search()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
			</form>
		</div>
		<div class="tools">
			<a href="/en/press/pressroom">Press Room</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399">Get Java Here</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<!-- <a href="javascript:void(0)">Print Format</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp; -->
		</div>

	</div>
	<div style="clear: right;"></div>

        

	<div class="topbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="3" width="154"></div>
	<div id="update"> </div>
    </div>


    

        <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Table ** //-->

        <table width="100%" border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">

            <tr>

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Navigation Column ** //-->
                <td width="150" id="leftcontent" valign="top">
                    <!-- Navigation Placeholder //-->

                    

                    <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>

        <!-- begin find JSRs form -->
        <!-- IMPORTANT! do not convert this form to Struts < html : form > tag.  javascript change of form.action property fails. -->
        <img src="/images/hd_find-jsrs.gif" alt="Find JSRs" height="18" width="150">
        <form name="findjsr" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" class="pt5" onsubmit="return validate_findjsr()">
            <input name="id" size="18" class="form" value="Search JSRs" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
	    <a href="javascript:document.findjsr.submit()" onclick="return validate_findjsr()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
        </form><br><br>

        <!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->

        <ul id="p7PMnav">
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/platform">JSRs by Platform</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/tech">JSRs by Technology</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/stage">JSRs by Stage</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/ec">JSRs by Committee</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/all">List of All JSRs</a></li>

            <!--end find JSRs form -->
            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--begin my JCP -->
            <img src="/images/hd_my-jcp.gif" alt="My JCP" height="18" width="150">
            

          <form name="login" method="get" action="/en/user/login" >
            <input name="Sign-in" type="submit" title="Sign-in" value="Sign-in" />
          </form>

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="3" alt=""></div>
            <div class="noNav">
                <a href="/en/user/register">Register for Site</a>
            </div>

             <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>
           <div class="noNav" style="color: #666666; padding: 0;">
              Use of JCP site is subject to the
              <a href="/en/home/terms" style="display:inline;padding: 0">JCP Terms of Use</a> and the
              <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html" style="display:inline;padding: 0" href="">Oracle Privacy Policy</a>
          </div>

            

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="25" alt=""></div>

            <!--begin JCP info -->
            <img src="/images/hd_jcp-info.gif" alt="JCP Info" height="18" width="150">

            <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview" class="p7PMtrg">About JCP</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview">Program Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/jcp2">JCP Process Document</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/calendar">Calendar</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/members">JCP Members</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/committee">Executive Committee</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/elections">Elections</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/participation/overview" class="p7PMtrg">Get Involved</a>
		<ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/overview">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/membership">Becoming a JCP Member</a></li>
		</ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contents" class="p7PMtrg">Community Resources</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/contents">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tutorials">Tutorials</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/multimedia">JCP Podcasts</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/guide">Spec Lead Guide</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tdk">TCK Tool & Info</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/license_reference">License Reference</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/press/pmo" class="p7PMtrg">Community News</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/pmo">News</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/news/awards/awards_main">Programs &amp; Awards</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/releases">Press Releases</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/success">Success Stories</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/introduction/faq">FAQ</a></li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a></li>

            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--[if lte IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav a{height:1em;}#p7PMnav li{height:1em;float:left;clear:both;width:100%}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav li{clear:none;}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 7]><style>#p7PMnav a{zoom:100%;}#p7PMnav li{float:left;clear:both;width:100%;}</style><![endif]-->
        </ul>

        

        <!--begin ad space -->
        <div class="ads">
            <a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399" target="_blank"><img style="display: ;" src="/images/ad_banner2.gif" alt="Ad Banner" border="1" height="70" width="150"></a>
        </div>
        <!--end ad space -->

<!-- ** Menu End ** //-->
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>

    

                    &nbsp;<br>
                    <img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="1" height="150"><br>

              



                </td>
                <!-- ** END: Navigation Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Gutter Column ** //-->
		<td width="10" nowrap><img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="10" height="1"></td>
                <!-- ** END: Gutter Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Column ** //-->
                <td width="100%" valign="top">

    
<script type="text/javascript">

String.prototype.trim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+|\s+$/g,"");
}
String.prototype.ltrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+/,"");
}
String.prototype.rtrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/\s+$/,"");
}

function validate_search() {
	if (document.search.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.search.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function validate_findjsr() {
	if (document.findjsr.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.findjsr.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function nullify_if_equal(field, str) {
	// alert("val=" + field.value);
	if (field.value == str) {
		field.value = "";
	}
}

</script>
<!-- ** END: header.jsp ** //-->






<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JCP EC minutes (public): January 23-24 2014</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="https://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">Executive Committee Meeting Minutes<br />
  for January 23-24 2014</h1>
<p align="center"><em>version 0.2: February 17 2014</em></p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>January 23-24, 2014</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Face-to-face, Redwood Shores CA,  hosted by Oracle</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>[<a href="PMO-topics-January-2014.pdf">PMO Presentation</a>] </li>
  <li><em><strong>Thursday (1:00 pm)</strong></em></li>
  <ul>
    <li>Roll call </li>
    <li>Agenda review</li>
    <li>Personnel changes </li>
    <li><a href="January-2014-ActionItems.html">Action Item review</a></li>
    <li><a href="EC_Stats_January2014.pdf">EC stats</a></li>
    <li><a href="ProgramOfficeReport_Jan2014.pdf">PMO report</a></li>
    <li><a href="2013JCPYearEndSummary.pdf">2013 year-end report</a></li>
    <li>Update  from the User-Group Summit</li>
    <li><a href="ParticipationJan2014.pdf">JUG participation in the JCP</a> (Bruno Souza, Jim Gough, Mohammed Taman)    </li>
  </ul>
  <li><strong><em>Friday (9:00 am)</em></strong></li>
  <ul>
    <li>Brief discussion on JSR 354 with Anatole Tresch </li>
    <li><a href="JSR310-EC-Review-v1.pdf">JSR 310 Spec Lead presentation</a> (Stephen Colbourne and Roger Riggs)</li>
    <li>JSR 358 Expert Group session
      <ul>
        <li><a href="IndividualsWGUpdateJanuary2014.pdf">Individuals Working Group report</a></li>
        <li><a href="IP-WG-Report-January-2014.pdf">IP Working Group report</a></li>
        <li><a href="https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting Materials/IP-flow-v8.pdf">IP Flow v8</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>2:00 pm: <a href="Java_for_IoT_JCP_EC_Jan24.pdf">Oracle's Internet of Things strategy</a> (Henrik Stahl)</li>
    <li><a href="M4M_M2M-EC-F2F_Jan14.pdf">Observations and Measurements JSR proposal</a> (Werner Keil and Leonardo Lima) </li>
  </ul>
  <ul>
  </ul>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<table border="1" width="50%">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center"><strong>Thursday January 23</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
      <li>Patrick Curran, Heather Vancura</li>
    </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>Executive Committee </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
          <li>ARM &#8211; Zack Shelby, Paul Manfrini &#8211; present</li>
          <li>Azul Systems &#8211; Gil Tene, John Pampuch &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>CloudBees &#8211; Steve Harris &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>Credit Suisse &#8211; Scott Baldry &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>Eclipse &#8211; Mike Milinkovich <em>&#8211; present</span></em></li>
          <li>Ericsson &#8211; Kristoffer Gronowski<em> <em>&#8211; present</em></em></li>
          <li>Freescale &#8211;  Maulin Patel &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">Gemalto M2M &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
          <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; Mike Marzo &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present </em> </li>
          <li>IBM &#8211; Peter Whitehead (in person), Steve Wolfe (phone) &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Intel &#8211; Anil Kumar &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
          <li>Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</li>
          <li>London Java Community &#8211; James Gough&#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
          <li>Morocco JUG &#8211; Mohamed Taman &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">Nokia &#8211; <em>not present</em></li>
          <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch, Calinel Pasteanu &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>RedHat &#8211; Scott Stark &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>SAP &#8211; Steve Winkler &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">Software AG &#8211; </em>Alex Snaps &#8211; <em>phone</em></li>
          <li>SouJava &#8211; Bruno Souza &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>TOTVS &#8211; David Britto &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Twitter &#8211; Chris Aniszczyk &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>V2COM &#8211; Leonardo Lima &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        </ul>
      <p>Total attendance: 22 of 25 voting members</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
      <td nowrap="nowrap">Since 75% of the EC's 25 voting members were present,
        the EC was <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> on this day</td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>

<p>&nbsp;</p>
<table width="50%" border="1">
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td align="center"><strong>Friday January 24</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><ul>
        <li>Patrick Curran, Heather Vancura</li>
      </ul></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><div align="center"><strong>Executive Committee </strong></div></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td><ul>
        <li>ARM &#8211; Zack Shelby &#8211; present</li>
        <li>Azul Systems &#8211; Gil Tene, John Pampuch &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
        <li>CloudBees &#8211; Steve Harris &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
        <li>Credit Suisse &#8211; Scott Baldry &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
        <li>Eclipse &#8211; Mike Milinkovich <em>&#8211; present</span></em></li>
        <li>Ericsson &#8211; Kristoffer Gronowski<em> <em>&#8211; present</em></em></li>
        <li>Freescale &#8211;  Maulin Patel &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li class="red">Gemalto M2M &#8211; <em class="red">not present</em></li>
        <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; Mike Marzo &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present </em></li>
        <li>IBM &#8211; Peter Whitehead (in person), Steve Wolfe (phone) &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Intel &#8211; Anil Kumar &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
        <li>Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</li>
        <li>London Java Community &#8211; James Gough&#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Morocco JUG &#8211; Mohamed Taman &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li class="red">Nokia &#8211; <em>not present</em></li>
        <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch, Calinel Pasteanu &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
        <li>RedHat &#8211; Scott Stark &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li class="red">SAP &#8211; Steve Winkler &#8211; <em>phone</em></li>
        <li class="red">Software AG &#8211; </em>Alex Snaps &#8211; <em>phone</em></li>
        <li>SouJava &#8211; Bruno Souza &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>TOTVS &#8211; David Britto &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>Twitter &#8211; Chris Aniszczyk &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
        <li>V2COM &#8211; Leonardo Lima &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      </ul>
      <p>Total attendance: 21 of 25 voting members</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td nowrap="nowrap">Since 75% of the EC's 25 voting members were present,
        the EC was <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> on this day</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h3>Changes in status as a result of attendance at this meeting</h3>
<p>The&nbsp;<a href="http://jcp.org/en/procedures/ec_standing_rules">EC Standing Rules</a>&nbsp;state the following penalties for non-attendance at EC meetings (note that those who participate in face-to-face meetings by phone are officially counted as absent):</p>
<ul>
  <li>Missing two meetings in a row results in a loss of voting privileges until two consecutive meetings have been attended.</li>
  <li>Missing five meetings in a row, or missing two-thirds of the meetings in any consecutive 12-month period results in loss of the EC seat.</li>
</ul>
<p> There are no changes in voting status as a result of this meeting.</p>
<h3>Action Item review</h3>
<p>See the <a href="January-2014-ActionItems.html">Action Item tracking file</a>.</p>
<h3>EC Stats</h3>
<p>Heather presented the usual <a href="EC_Stats_January2014.pdf">EC stats</a>. We noted the poor voting turnout for ballots that were held at the end of the year, and discussed the possibility of prohibiting ballots at this time. We reached no decision on this question but continued the discussion later in the day  (see below).</p>
<h3>PMO Report</h3>
<p>Heather presented a <a href="ProgramOfficeReport_Jan2014.pdf">report from the PMO</a> covering the following topics:</p>
<h4>Membership</h4>
<p>Heather presented an updated  report on PMO efforts to clean up the membership database. Having mostly  completed processing corporate members the PMO is now focusing on  individual members. They will require individual members to reconfirm  their membership each year, and at that time the PMO will ensure that we  have up-to-date Exhibit B's for all individual members (taking into  account changes of employer). As a result of this process we expect a  significant reduction in the number of &quot;active&quot; individual members  recorded in our database. (The memberships of individuals who we cannot  contact, or who decline to provide updated information, will be  cancelled.)<br />
  <br />
Heather once again reported on the declining numbers of corporate  members. At the peak we had about 210 paying corporate members but we  are currently down to about 50 and we expect the numbers to decline  further to about 30. (The decline is caused by a number of factors including acquisitions, mergers, resignations, and unwillingness to pay the  membership fees.)<br />
<br />
Mike  DeNicola asked whether with only 30 paying members it was worth  collecting the money. Don Deutsch answered that Oracle is considering  cancelling the fees. He added that there seem to be two reasons why  corporations don't join: they don't want to pay the fee, and they don't  want to commit IP. He argued that if both of these obstacles are removed  there would be no need to permit employed individuals to join as full members since they could instead gain access through their employer's membership.<br />
<br />
Heather suggested that we would take up this topic again during  tomorrow's discussion on Individual members. She noted that about half  of current corporate members are fee-paying, but said that she expects  the proportion to drop to 1/3 when the cleanup process is complete.<br />
<br />
Mike DeNicola pointed out that most standards organizations are reporting decreased participation. Consultants       are starting to say that there is less of a widespread belief in       the need for standards. Steve Winkler responded that sometimes the code can be considered the       standard. Mike Milinkovich agreed.<br />
<br />
Gil Tene noted that real participation is expensive (in  staff-time) whether or       not there are fees involved. Mike DeNicola stated that if Fujitsu  was one of the 30 fee-paying members (it is not) he would consider the  situation very unfair.<br />
<br />
Patrick noted that membership tends to be driven by active (newly-filed)  JSRs. When these numbers decline so does membership. He suggested that  we should gather data on participation below the level of Expert Group  membership (making a       comment, logging a bug, Adopt-a-JSR activities, etc.) He suggested  that the JSR Review process template is the place to gather such data,  and said he would add a requirement that Spec Leads estimate the number  of non-EG members who participate in their JSRs. (The relevant Action  Item has been updated accordingly.)<br />
</p>
<h4>EC Election schedules</h4>
<p>Heather reported that the  Process Document specifies in detail when the election nomination  process starts and when the election takes place. She suggested that if  the nomination process was held a few weeks earlier it might make it  easier for the PMO to gather the necessary materials from candidates and  to schedule the &quot;meet the candidates&quot; events. She asked whether EC  members would have any objections if the PMO adopted a different timetable from that specified in the Process Document. <em><strong><br />
</strong></em> <br />
Gil Tene asked whether we could we implement his suggestion that  only those who were members a certain number of weeks or months before  the election would be eligible to vote. We noted that the Process  Document does not prohibit this.<br />
<br />
Scott Jameson suggested that announcing the elections on August 1  may not have much impact since for many in Europe August is a &quot;dead  month&quot;.<br />
<br />
Don Deutsch asked whether there would be any advantage to pushing  back the date when new members take       office so it coincides with the end-of-year shutdown, thereby  overlapping two &quot;dead periods&quot;. We noted that this would result in  &quot;retiring members&quot; becoming lame-ducks.<br />
<br />
Patrick suggested that we could address this by holding the  election later in the year. Mike DeNicola noted that we are focusing on  timing the elections around JavaOne, yet the dates of JavaOne are not  fixed.<br />
<br />
During further discussion on the poor turnout for the end-of-year JSR  ballots we noted that these were 7-day Maintenance ballots, and  suggested that if these ballots were extended to 14 days this might alleviate the problem. <br />
<br />
EC members agreed that the PMO should have more flexibility in planning  the election time line, and asked Heather to come back to the EC with a proposal.<br />
<br />
Patrick logged two issues to track suggestions made during this discussion:<br />
</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-51">JSR358-51: The Process Document ought to permit more flexibility in the timing of the annual elections</a></li>
  <li><a href="https://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-52">JSR358-52: Make Maintenance Review Ballots 14 days instead of 7 days</a><br />
</li></ul>
<h3>2013 year-end report</h3>
<p>Heather presented the PMO's <a href="2013JCPYearEndSummary.pdf">2013 year-end report</a>.</p>
<p>We noted that the numbers provided in this presentation are  still in flux. Next year's data will look very different once all of the  clean-up work is completed. Because of the number of &quot;inactive&quot; members  in the database the graph of membership by year is difficult to  interpret. Once we get to a clean baseline later this year then true  year-to-year changes will be easier to determine. Gil Tene pointed out  that since the election participation numbers are expressed as  percentages it is difficult to interpret them (once again due to the  number of inactive members). Patrick responded that once the database  has been cleaned up our &quot;true&quot; participation rate will probably be  significantly higher than it is now.<br />
  <br />
  Heather pointed out that about 30 of the corporations who cancelled fell into the category of&nbsp; &quot;financial reasons - chose to       join as individuals instead&quot;.<br />
  <br />
  Mohammed Taman asked whether people need to become JCP members       in order to participate in Adopt-a-JSR. Patrick responded that  membership is not necessary for smaller contributions. (The Spec Lead  may eventually       request a JSPA if there is a substantive IP contribution.) He  admitted that this is something of a grey area and pointed out that the  new Affiliate membership class will       require signing a &quot;JSPA-lite&quot; which is more like a simple       contributor agreement - that should clarify matters.<br />
  <br />
  We noted that only one new JSR was started in 2013 and agreed that this  is not a good sign. We discussed (as we have done each year for several  years now) the fact that almost all of the Spec-Lead work is done by  Oracle. We wondered why others are others not investing and asked  whether the process favors Oracle, thereby       discouraging others from participating. <br />
  <br />
  Gil Tene responded that Azul wants to contribute to OpenJDK but can't get access to       the TCK before the JSR is completed even though early drops are       made available to commercial licensees. Mike Milinkovich suggested that Gil should take this up with the OpenJDK board.<br />
  <br />
  Kristoffer Gronowski  pointed out that there is a significant cost involved in developing the  RI and TCK - not many are willing to make that investment. Patrick  responded that JSR 358 will&nbsp; mandate open-source development processes  for RIs and that many       already choose to develop the RI in that way.<br />
  <br />
  We noted that some of the apparent imbalance is a result of  consolidation - specifically, Oracle's acquisitions of BEA and Sun, each  of whom had led a significant number of JSRs when they were independent companies. <br />
  <br />
  John Pampuch suggested that perhaps people don't think that money can be       made from licensing technologies.</p>
<h3>Update from the User-Group summit / JUG participation in the JCP</h3>
<p> Bruno Souza and Jim Gough provided a brief update on the Oracle  User Group Summit meeting. Mike DeNicola asked whether the experiment of  collocating with that meeting had been successful. Bruno responded that  there would not be much benefit unless we actually brought JUG members  into the EC meeting. He then located  three JUG leaders and brought them in to the meeting:<br />
</p>
<ul>
  <li>Andrii Rodionov -           JUG KPI (Ukraine)</li>
  <li>Ryan Cuprak - Connecticut JUG</li>
  <li>Keith Combs -           Silicon Valley JavaFX JUG</li>
</ul>
<p>Bruno Souza, Jim Gough and Mohammed Taman then led a broader discussion on JUG participation in the JCP (see <a href="ParticipationJan2014.pdf">the presentation</a> for details).</p>
<p>Patrick concluded that if we do this again next year we should schedule a full session with the JUG leaders, and ensure that this is inserted into their official schedules.<br />
</p> 
<p>We then adjourned for the day. </p>
<h3>JSR 354 discussion</h3>
<p>Anatole Tresch, the Spec Lead for JSR 354, joined by phone for a brief discussion of the recent ballot on that JSR. </p>
<p>James Gough reiterated the concerns about conversion, backward-compatibility,       and formatting that the LJC had expressed in their       comments. He emphasized that this JSR is very important and expressed the hope that the feedback would be       taken constructively. <br />
  <br />
Mike Milinkovich asked whether these problems could be fixed in a  future JSR. James agreed that they could, but argued that if people  develop their own conversion routines then perhaps they wouldn't adopt  newly-standardized APIs. Mike responded that there are no standard  routines now, so this JSR doesn't make       things worse.<br />
<br />
Anatole responded that there are many different use-cases for  conversion, making it very difficult       to standardize and to create an implementation. (The  implementation would need access to       a database of conversion values.) The EG wants to focus for now on  developing something self-contained - conversion could be added later.  As for backward compatibility, he agreed that the spec could eliminate  references to SE6, but said that the EG is concerned that people may not       adopt SE8 rapidly, and therefore wanted to maintain backward  compatibility       with SE7 in order to encourage widespread adoption and to get more       experience. As for formatting, he said that the later version 0.8  of the spec addresses many concerns, including some       formatting APIs. He agreed that the EG could discuss how these  could be extended by taking advantage       of Java SE8 features. <br />
<br />
Don Deutsch and Steve Wolfe raise procedural concerns, asking why  the EC is having this discussion since it is not a technical body and  the vote has now been completed.<br />
<br />
Calinel Pasteanu responded that the EC is not &quot;not technical&quot; and argued  that there is value to discussing these issues in the open rather than  simply burying them in the comments associated with the ballot results.<br />
<br />
Gil Tene asked whether we have a procedural problem, noting that  this discussion should have       taken place sooner - before the ballot closed. Roger Riggs  suggested that there was some confusion over whether EC members were  actually reviewing the materials that were formally submitted for ballot or something else.<br />
<br />
Patrick suggested that the EC should discuss these procedural  matters at another time. He agreed to put this topic on the agenda for a  future meeting. An AI has been opened to track this.</p>
<h3>JSR 310 Spec-Lead presentation</h3>
<p>Roger Riggs and Stephen Colbourne gave a <a href="JSR310-EC-Review-v1.pdf">summary presentation</a> on JSR 310: Date and Time API.</p>
<p>Steve Harris asked how well the collaborative test  development     process worked. (The presenters had pointed out that their test  development process delivered both TCK tests and more general unit  tests, with the TCK tests being delivered separately.) Steve asked  whether this model could be used more widely.<br />
  <br />
  Roger responded that future maintenance of the TCK will be part of the SE development     process. If this was a standalone JSR then widespread availability     of tests would be more practical. He said that he likes the idea of making tests     available as part of the deliverables. <br />
  <br />
  Stephen responded that if you're writing code you should be writing tests at the     same time. He too was glad that the tests are available in the repository.     He admitted that the TCK tests may not be as rigorously developed as other parts of     the JCK. This JSR ended up in the right place, but their development process shouldn't necessarily be a model for others.<br />
  <br />
  Patrick thanked the London Java Community for their participation,  noting that this is the first JSR for which     we've had active participation from a JUG. Stephen responded that  they probably couldn't have completed this JSR without the     LJC's participation.<br />
  <br />
  Steve Harris argued that the way this JSR was developed could serve as     a model for others. He said that a collaborative test development process and the widespread     availability of tests is a good thing, and pointed out that the process still (correctly)     maintained the separateness and &quot;special&quot; nature of the TCK.<br />
  <br />
  Werner Keil asked whether there are any plans for this JSR 310 to be  supported on smaller devices. Roger responded that they haven't seen  much demand for this, so they haven't seriously considered it. Stephen  said that he had always thought of this JSR as being focused on  large-scale,     server-side applications. A date-time API for smaller devices would     be very different. JSR 310 will probably be part of the SE profiles.<br />
  &nbsp;<br />
  Roger concluded by once again thanking the LJC for their participation.<br />
</p>
<h3>JSR 358 Expert Group session </h3>
<h4>Individuals Working Group report</h4>
<p>Heather Vancura led a discussion on the work of the Individuals Working Group (see the <a href="IndividualsWGUpdateJanuary2014.pdf">presentation</a> for details).</p>
<p>Heather summarized recent Working Group activities and the associated  Doodle polls. Patrick noted that EC members had voted yes on the  proposal for a new Affiliate     membership class with limited voting rights and then after the fact  said that they thought this was to be an     addition to rather than a replacement for the current right of     employed individuals to join as full members. He noted that the  Working Group had clearly stated on several occasions that this was to  be an alternative, since the WG had agreed to follow the OASIS model,  where employed individuals are not permitted to join in their own right.<br />
  <br />
Don Deutsch argued strongly that the situation with regard to individual members is broken. There are no IP     commitments from employers, yet employed individuals can out-vote     the corporate members. No other standards body permits individual     members as we do.<br />
<br />
Mike DeNicola argued that we must ensure that genuinely independent individuals have the     option to join as full members. If someone is employed, their only options     should be to be an Observer, to be an Affiliate, or to participate     on behalf of (in association with) their employer (who has signed     the JSPA).<br />
<br />
Gil Tene responded that had Don expressed two main concerns. With  respect to IP rights he agreed with Don that the problem must be fixed.  However, he disagreed with Don on voting rights. Many employed  individuals will     never be able to persuade their employers to sign the JSPA. The     majority of the Java community's best developers have day jobs and     their employers don't care about Java and the JCP.&nbsp; We should look  to IETF for     a model. Don responded that there are no corporate memberships in  the IETF - everyone is an individual.<br />
<br />
Patrick noted that we will have a simple Contributor Agreement that  covers     individuals. Their employers, however, don't make any IP commitment.  He argued that we can separate the two benefits that JCP members have  (EG     participation and voting) and consider these separately.<br />
<br />
Firstly, he proposed that we should allow employed individuals to join  as full members, but only if the employer signs the JSPA.&nbsp; (Someone else  pointed out that we could create a simpler version of the JSPA that  retains the IP commitments but that strips out all of the language  concerning the Spec Lead's responsibilities.) EC members agreed with  this proposal.<br />
<br />
Secondly, Patrick noted that if someone cannot persuade his/her employer  to sign the JSPA then they can     join as an Affiliate member by signing the simplified membership     (contributor) agreement. Affiliate members will not be able to     join an Expert Group or be a Spec Lead. The voting rights they would  have are still undecided, but the last Doodle poll did show a  reasonable consensus for permitting them (and only them) to vote for two  designated &quot;Community Seats&quot; on the EC.<br />
<br />
The Working Group will continue its discussions by starting from these two positions.<br />
<br />
Scott Jameson noted that HP policies would prohibit their employees  from signing up as Affiliates. Mike DeNicola responded that we shouldn't  expect to get a perfect solution. We should simply try to improve on  what we have today.<br />
<br />
Patrick noted some additional (related) matters that require further discussion:<br />
<br />
1) should employees of corporations that are full members be permitted to     join as Affiliates, or even as full members?<br />
<br />
2) If an employer signs the JSPA in order to     enable its employees to join as  full members then why wouldn't  that employer be a     full member itself, thereby eliminating the need for their employees to  join in their own right (since they could simply associate themselves with the  employer's membership)?<br />
<br />
3) If multiple employees of a corporation join as full members, should they each get a vote or should they share a single vote?<br />
</p>
<h4>IP Working Group report</h4>
<p>Patrick led a discussion on the work of the IP Working Group (see the <a href="IP-WG-Report-January-2014.pdf">presentation</a> for details).<strong><br />
</strong><br />
He briefly summarized the situation, noting that the Working Group proposed that Spec  Leads should choose one of three open source licenses for the RI: GPL  v2, Apache, and Eclipse. However, after legal consultation it became  apparent that these licenses are incompatible with each other, and also  with the commercial licensing that Oracle uses for the platforms. He  then introduced Jim Wright, who had <a href="https://java.net/downloads/jsr358/Meeting%20Materials/JSR-358-IPWG-Minutes-July-11-2013.html">met with the IP Working Group last year</a>, and asked him to present his proposed solution to this problem.<br />
<br />
Jim suggested that instead of the three licenses previously proposed we  should use a new &quot;universal license&quot; that he had drafted. This license  is basically MIT plus patent grants, and Jim expected to have it <a href="http://opensource.org/licenses">approved by the Open Source Initiative</a>.<br />
<br />
Members asked whether Oracle too would use this new license. Jim  responded no - Oracle would continue to use GPL + Classpath Exception  for all Oracle-led JSRs.<br />
<br />
Steve Wolfe asked what would stop Oracle taking liberally-licensed RI  code     and using it outside of the Java arena. Jim agreed that this new  license would not prevent that, but he pointed out that the same is true  of the Eclipse and Apache licenses.<br />
<br />
Mike Milinkovich pointed out that while under the current JSPA and  the previous proposal all Spec Leads are treated equally the new  proposal clearly allocates a special role to Oracle. Patrick reminded  Steve Wolfe that in the original IBM proposal for a &quot;flat IP flow&quot; he  recognized that code that goes into the platform is &quot;special&quot;. Steve  responded that he still believed this was OK. He reiterated, however,  that he doesn't want people to be able to take IBM contributions and use  them in ways     that do not benefit the Java community.<br />
<br />
Jim reiterated that he can't solve that problem and Gil Tene pointed out  the the licenses on our current list wouldn't prohibit that either.<br />
<br />
Gil pointed out that we've agreed we want a flat IP flow, so the  inbound     contribution license really ought to be the same as this new  license. Mike Milinkovich said that under the Eclipse&nbsp; CLA that would be  the case - the relationship between inbound and outbound IP is  symmetrical. <br />
<br />
Scott Stark said that this proposal would work for RedHat.<br />
<br />
Scott Jameson said that HP is opposed to creating yet another license.  Mike Milinkovich responded that he couldn't think of another license  that does what we need<br />
<br />
Patrick pointed out that Oracle's first proposed solution was to     require a contributor agreement from everyone who contributes to an     RI project. EC members strongly objected to that, so this proposal for a new license was the best Jim could come up with.<br />
<br />
Don Deutsch asked whether this license should be required even for RIs that may never     want to be included in the platform.<br />
<br />
Gil Tene noted that if this license is mandated for all Java ME JSRs  then the standalone     (component) Java ME JSRs won't be able to use restrictive licensing  as a     means of monetization. Patrick noted that this requirement this  won't apply to JSRs 360 and 361. He said that we have asked the ME     business units to confirm this is OK with them and they said that it  was. However, Jim and Patrick agreed that they would ask once more.<br />
<br />
Steve Wolfe said that this seems to be a major change and appears to  be a non-starter. He said that he didn't think he could convince IBM's  management to agree to a license with such a broad patent grant. The  patent grant ought to be constrained enough to prevent     widespread re-use of contributions outside of the scope of the Java     Community.<br />
<br />
Jim said that he still needed to do internal reviews within Oracle, but promised to provide the actual text of the license to EC members as soon as possible.<br />
</p>
<h3>Java and the Internet of Things</h3>
<p>Henrik Stahl gave a presentation on Java and the Internet of Things (IoT). See the <a href="Java_for_IoT_JCP_EC_Jan24.pdf">presentation</a> for details.</p>
<p>After explaining the background of this emerging industry Henrik explained Oracle's vision for the role of Java in IoT.<br />
  <br />
Java should be able to target any device of any size in any market. To  that end, the divergence that we have seen between Java ME and Java SE  must be corrected; the future Java ME must be, to the greatest extent  possible, a subset of Java SE. The new revisions of the platform  specifications will help to converge the two platforms, and Java SE  profiles will also help. <br />
<br />
Henrik explained a new concept that will be reduced in Java SE 8 and Java ME 8: <em>Stripped Implementations</em>.  An application and the underlying platform runtime can be bundled  together and then all extraneous code can be removed (stripped) so that  the resulting binary is as small as possible. Changes will be needed to  licensing terms and TCK rules to ensure that this process does not  fragment the platforms or result in incompatible implementations.<br />
<br />
He went on to discuss what the JCP can do to help Java to evolve to meet  the needs of this new space. Firstly, Java ME and Java SE must be  unified. Oracle expects to build on OSGI as an application container (no  need to reinvent the wheel). At the very low end Java may not be the  most suitable environment - it is still too big. Instead, we should  create standard bindings to protocols that are being defined elsewhere.  Then, Oracle intends to create implementations. There will be a  low-level API that can be used to write device drivers (no need to write  native code). Existing JSRs (BlueTooth, USB, Location) could be updated.<br />
<br />
During the discussion that followed the following comments were made:<br />
</p>
<ul>
  <li>In some areas Android is far easier to use.<br />
  </li>
  <li>We need improved package management, trusted repositories.</li>
  <li>Device management is critical.</li>
  <li>Not everything will be done in Java therefore we need good Java bindings.</li>
  <li>We cannot eliminate all differences between Java ME and Java SE - some hardware limitations just cannot be worked around.</li>
  <li>Java is coming from behind we need a balance between letting the hacker community loose and standardization.</li>
  <li>Oracle can't do this work behind closed doors and then produce a complete solution.</li>
  <li>We should encourage others to join in on work that may become a JSR later.</li>
  <li>Eclipse has an active IoT group using liberal licenses and coding in Java. There are already 13 projects - this is a good place to collaborate.<br />
  </li>
  <li>Open source bodies are good place to build APIs.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Observations and Measurements JSR proposal</h3>
<p>Werner Keil and Leonardo Lima gave a <a href="M4M_M2M-EC-F2F_Jan14.pdf">presentation</a> proposing a new units of measurement JSR. During the brief discussion that followed EC members were generally sympathetic with the caveats that the proposed API should not be too ambitious, and that the lessons of the failed JSR 275 should be taken into consideration.</p>
<h4>Adjourn</h4>
<p>Patrick thanked Oracle for hosting the meeting and Heather for her administrative assistance. We then adjourned.</p>
<p><br />
</p>
</body></html>


<!-- ** BEGIN: footer.jsp ** //-->








</td>
</tr>
</table>

<!-- ** END: Content Table ** //-->

<!-- ** BEGIN: Footer Table ** //-->

<div id="footer" style="clear: both;">
    <div class="footleft">
        <a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a>
    </div>
	
    <div class="botbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="23" width="1"></div>

    <div class="footleft2">
         &copy; 2019, Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. 
        <a href="/en/home/terms">Terms of Use</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html">Privacy Policy</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/third-party-trademarks/third-party-trademarks-078568.html">Trademarks</a>
    </div>

    <div class="footright">
        <img src="/images/common/logo_oracle_footer.gif" alt="Oracle Corporation" height="22" width="91">
    </div>

    <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="30" width="1"></div>
</div>

<!-- ** END: Footer Table ** //-->



<!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->



</body>
</html>
<!-- ** END: footer.jsp ** //-->

