
<!-- ** BEGIN: header.jsp ** //-->






















<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3c.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
<head>
    

   
    <link href="/includes/css/menu.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <link href="/includes/css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <!--[if lt IE 6]><link href="/includes/css/style5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <!--[if gte IE 5]><link href="/includes/css/style6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <link href="/includes/css/tabs.css"  rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/tabs.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/menu.js"></script>
   

    

    
        <title>The Java Community Process(SM) Program - communityprocess - ec-public</title>
    

    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>



<body onload="P7_initPM(0,1,0,0,-1)">

    <a name="top"></a>

    <div id="header">
	<div id="logo">
		<a href="/en/home/index"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="Java Community Process" height="81" width="151"></a>
	</div>
	<div id="tools">
		<div class="search">
			<form name="search" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" onsubmit="return validate_search()">
				<input name="id" value="Search JSRs" size="16" class="form" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
				<a href="javascript:document.search.submit()" onclick="return validate_search()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
			</form>
		</div>
		<div class="tools">
			<a href="/en/press/pressroom">Press Room</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399">Get Java Here</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<!-- <a href="javascript:void(0)">Print Format</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp; -->
		</div>

	</div>
	<div style="clear: right;"></div>

        

	<div class="topbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="3" width="154"></div>
	<div id="update"> </div>
    </div>


    

        <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Table ** //-->

        <table width="100%" border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">

            <tr>

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Navigation Column ** //-->
                <td width="150" id="leftcontent" valign="top">
                    <!-- Navigation Placeholder //-->

                    

                    <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>

        <!-- begin find JSRs form -->
        <!-- IMPORTANT! do not convert this form to Struts < html : form > tag.  javascript change of form.action property fails. -->
        <img src="/images/hd_find-jsrs.gif" alt="Find JSRs" height="18" width="150">
        <form name="findjsr" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" class="pt5" onsubmit="return validate_findjsr()">
            <input name="id" size="18" class="form" value="Search JSRs" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
	    <a href="javascript:document.findjsr.submit()" onclick="return validate_findjsr()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
        </form><br><br>

        <!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->

        <ul id="p7PMnav">
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/platform">JSRs by Platform</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/tech">JSRs by Technology</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/stage">JSRs by Stage</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/ec">JSRs by Committee</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/all">List of All JSRs</a></li>

            <!--end find JSRs form -->
            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--begin my JCP -->
            <img src="/images/hd_my-jcp.gif" alt="My JCP" height="18" width="150">
            

          <form name="login" method="get" action="/en/user/login" >
            <input name="Sign-in" type="submit" title="Sign-in" value="Sign-in" />
          </form>

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="3" alt=""></div>
            <div class="noNav">
                <a href="/en/user/register">Register for Site</a>
            </div>

             <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>
           <div class="noNav" style="color: #666666; padding: 0;">
              Use of JCP site is subject to the
              <a href="/en/home/terms" style="display:inline;padding: 0">JCP Terms of Use</a> and the
              <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html" style="display:inline;padding: 0" href="">Oracle Privacy Policy</a>
          </div>

            

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="25" alt=""></div>

            <!--begin JCP info -->
            <img src="/images/hd_jcp-info.gif" alt="JCP Info" height="18" width="150">

            <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview" class="p7PMtrg">About JCP</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview">Program Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/jcp2">JCP Process Document</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/calendar">Calendar</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/members">JCP Members</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/committee">Executive Committee</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/elections">Elections</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/participation/overview" class="p7PMtrg">Get Involved</a>
		<ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/overview">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/membership">Becoming a JCP Member</a></li>
		</ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contents" class="p7PMtrg">Community Resources</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/contents">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tutorials">Tutorials</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/multimedia">JCP Podcasts</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/guide">Spec Lead Guide</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tdk">TCK Tool & Info</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/license_reference">License Reference</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/press/pmo" class="p7PMtrg">Community News</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/pmo">News</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/news/awards/awards_main">Programs &amp; Awards</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/releases">Press Releases</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/success">Success Stories</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/introduction/faq">FAQ</a></li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a></li>

            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--[if lte IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav a{height:1em;}#p7PMnav li{height:1em;float:left;clear:both;width:100%}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav li{clear:none;}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 7]><style>#p7PMnav a{zoom:100%;}#p7PMnav li{float:left;clear:both;width:100%;}</style><![endif]-->
        </ul>

        

        <!--begin ad space -->
        <div class="ads">
            <a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399" target="_blank"><img style="display: ;" src="/images/ad_banner2.gif" alt="Ad Banner" border="1" height="70" width="150"></a>
        </div>
        <!--end ad space -->

<!-- ** Menu End ** //-->
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>

    

                    &nbsp;<br>
                    <img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="1" height="150"><br>

              



                </td>
                <!-- ** END: Navigation Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Gutter Column ** //-->
		<td width="10" nowrap><img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="10" height="1"></td>
                <!-- ** END: Gutter Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Column ** //-->
                <td width="100%" valign="top">

    
<script type="text/javascript">

String.prototype.trim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+|\s+$/g,"");
}
String.prototype.ltrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+/,"");
}
String.prototype.rtrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/\s+$/,"");
}

function validate_search() {
	if (document.search.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.search.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function validate_findjsr() {
	if (document.findjsr.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.findjsr.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function nullify_if_equal(field, str) {
	// alert("val=" + field.value);
	if (field.value == str) {
		field.value = "";
	}
}

</script>
<!-- ** END: header.jsp ** //-->






<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />
<title>JCP EC minutes (public): September 11-12, 2012</title>

<!--

My personal stylesheet: <link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
And the jcp.org version: <link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />

-->

<link href="../../../docs/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
<link href="http://jcp.org/files/PCurranStyles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />


</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">Executive Committee Meeting Minutes<br />
  for September 11-12 2012</h1>
<p align="center"><em>version 0.3: October 24 2012</em></p>
<p align="center" class="red">&nbsp;</p>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>September 11-12, 2012</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Face-to-face meeting: Prague, Czech Republic - hosted by Deutsche Telekom</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <ul>
    <li>(<a href="PMO-topics-September-2012.pdf">PMO Presentation</a>)</li>
    <li>Roll call 
      <ul>
        <li>Regrets: Ericsson, SouJava</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Agenda review</li>
    <li>Logistics for the JSR 358 Expert Group session (enable two-way phone bridge?)</li>
    <li>Personnel changes</li>
    <li><a href="EC_Stats11September2012.pdf">EC stats</a> </li>
    <li><a href="ProgramOfficeReport_September2012.pdf">PMO report</a> 
      <ul>
        <li>Membership update</li>
        <li>The JCP at JavaOne</li>
        <li>JCP 2.8 scorecard</li>
        <li>Annual elections</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li> <a href="JavaOne_2012_Update_Java_Embedded_Overview.pdf">JavaOne overview</a></li>
    <li><a href="OGC_s.pdf">Collaboration with the Open Geospatial Consortium</a> 
      (Werner Keil)</li>
    <li><a href="InactiveJSRsSeptember2012.pdf">Inactive JSR report</a></li>
    <li>Java SE8 community involvement update (Ben Evans)</li>
    <li>How the EC reviews JSRs (Gil Tene)</li>
    <li>3:00 pm Tuesday 
      <ul>
        <li>Spec Lead presentation: <a href="20120904-JSF_2_2_JCP_EC.pdf">JSR 
          344: JavaServer Faces 2.2</a> (Ed Burns)</li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>4:00 pm Tuesday 
      <ul>
        <li>Spec Lead presentation: <a href="JSR353_JCP_09112012.pdf">JSR 353: 
          Java API for JSON Processing</a> (Jitendra Kotamraju) </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Wednesday 
      <ul>
        <li>JSR 358 Expert Group session 
          <ul>
            <li><a href="Hub-and-Spoke-Alternative.pdf">IBM: hub-and-spoke 
              IP grants</a></li>
            <li><a href="RedHat-JCPECIPFlow.pdf">Red Hat: IP flow</a></li>
            <li>Ben Evans: IP flow</li>
            <li><a href="JCP_Sep2012_IndependentImplementation.pdf">Gil Tene: 
              Independent Implementations</a></li>
            <li>Werner Keil: Transplant JSRs</li>
            <li>Other topics TBD</li>
          </ul>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
  </ul>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance: Tuesday September 11</h2>
<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tbody><tr>
    <td colspan="2"><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2"><ul>
          <li>Patrick Curran</li>
      </ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%"><div align="center"><strong>ME EC </strong></div></td>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>SE/EE EC </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
          <li class="style2">Stefano Andreani <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
          <li>Aplix <em>&#8211;</em> Lakshmi Dontamsetti <em><em>&#8211; present</em></em></li>
          <li>ARM &#8211; Paul Manfrini &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">AT&amp;T <em>&#8211; </em>Roger Mahler<em> &#8211; <em>by 
            phone </em></em> <strong>(NON-VOTING MEMBER)</strong></li>
          <li>Deutsche Telekom <em>&#8211; </em> Radom&iacute;r V&#283;ncek <em>&#8211; 
            present</em></li>
          <li>IBM &#8211; Peter Whitehead &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</li>
          <li class="red">Nokia <em>&#8211;</em> <em>not present</em></li>
          <li>Oracle &#8211; Calinel Pasteanu<em>&#8211; present</em></li>
          <li class="red">RIM <em>&#8211; not present </em><strong>(NON-VOTING 
            MEMBER)</strong></li>
          <li class="style2">Siemens <em>&#8211; </em>Marquart Franz<em> <em>&#8211; 
            present</em></em></li>
          <li class="style2">TOTVS <em>&#8211; </em>David Britto<em class="style2"><em> 
            <em>&#8211; </em>present</em></em></li>
          <li class="red">Vodafone <em>&#8211;</em> <em>not present</em></li>
        </ul>
        <p>Total attendance: 9 of 11 voting members</p></td>
    <td><ul>
          <li>Azul Systems <em>&#8211; Gil Tene</em> &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li class="style2">Credit Suisse &#8211; Susanne Cech Previtali &#8211;<em> 
            present</em></li>
          <li>Eclipse &#8211; Mike Milinkovich <em><span class="style2">&#8211; 
            present</span></em></li>
          <li class="red">Ericsson <em>&#8211; excused</em></li>
          <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; Scot Baldry &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
          <li>Google <em>&#8211; </em>Van Riper &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
          <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present </em> </li>
          <li>IBM &#8211; Peter Whitehead &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <ul>
            <li>Steve Wolfe, Ed Lynch, and Mark Rogalski attended by phone for 
              IBM</li>
          </ul>
          <li class="red">Intel &#8211; Anil Kumar &#8211; <em>by phone</em></li>
          <li class="style2">London Java Community &#8211; Ben Evans &#8211; <em>present</em> 
          </li>
          <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
		  <ul>
            <li>Anish Karmarkar attended by phone for Oracle</li>
          </ul>
          <li>RedHat &#8211; David Bosschaert &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>SAP <em>&#8211; </em>Jutta Bindewald &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">SouJava &#8211; <em>excused</em></li>
          <li>Twitter &#8211; Chris Aniszczyk &#8211; <em>present</em><span class="red-bold"></span></li>
        </ul>
        <p>Total attendance: 13 of 16 voting members</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
      <td colspan="2">Since 75% of the ME EC's 11 voting members were present, 
        that EC was <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> for this meeting<br />
        Since 75% of the SE/EE EC's 16 voting members were present, that EC was 
        <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> for this meeting</td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>

<h2>Attendance: Wednesday September 12</h2>
<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tbody>
    <tr> 
      <td colspan="2"><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
    </tr>
    <tr> 
      <td colspan="2"><ul>
          <li>Patrick Curran</li>
        </ul></td>
    </tr>
    <tr> 
      <td width="50%"><div align="center"><strong>ME EC </strong></div></td>
      <td><div align="center"><strong>SE/EE EC </strong></div></td>
    </tr>
    <tr> 
      <td><ul>
          <li class="style2">Stefano Andreani <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
          <li>Aplix <em>&#8211;</em> Lakshmi Dontamsetti <em><em>&#8211; present</em></em></li>
          <li>ARM &#8211; Paul Manfrini &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">AT&amp;T <em>&#8211;</em> <em>not present</em> <strong>(NON-VOTING 
            MEMBER)</strong></li>
          <li>Deutsche Telekom <em>&#8211; </em> Radom&iacute;r V&#283;ncek <em>&#8211; 
            present</em></li>
          <li>IBM &#8211; Peter Whitehead &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Werner Keil &#8211; <em>presen</em>t</li>
          <li class="red">Nokia <em>&#8211;</em> <em>not present</em></li>
          <li>Oracle &#8211; Calinel Pasteanu<em>&#8211; present</em></li>
          <li class="red">RIM <em>&#8211; not present </em><strong>(NON-VOTING 
            MEMBER)</strong></li>
          <li class="style2">Siemens <em>&#8211; </em>Marquart Franz<em> <em>&#8211; 
            present</em></em></li>
          <li class="style2">TOTVS <em>&#8211; </em>David Britto<em class="style2"><em> 
            <em>&#8211; </em>present</em></em></li>
          <li class="red">Vodafone <em>&#8211;</em> <em>not present</em></li>
        </ul>
        <p>Total attendance: 9 of 11 voting members</p></td>
      <td><ul>
          <li>Azul Systems <em>&#8211; Gil Tene</em> &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li class="style2">Credit Suisse &#8211; Susanne Cech Previtali &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
		   <ul>
            <li>Victor Grazi attended by phone for Credit Suisse</li>
          </ul>
          <li>Eclipse &#8211; Mike Milinkovich <em><span class="style2">&#8211; present</span></em></li>
          <li class="red">Ericsson <em>&#8211; excused</em></li>
          <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>Goldman Sachs &#8211; Scot Baldry &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
          <li>Google <em>&#8211; </em>Van Riper &#8211; <em>present</em> </li>
          <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present </em> </li>
          <li>IBM &#8211; Peter Whitehead &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <ul>
            <li>Steve Wolfe and Ed Lynch attended by phone for IBM</li>
          </ul>
          <li class="red">Intel &#8211; Anil Kumar &#8211; <em>by phone</em></li>
          <li class="style2">London Java Community &#8211; Ben Evans &#8211; <em>present</em> 
          </li>
          <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
          <li>RedHat &#8211; David Bosschaert &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li>SAP <em>&#8211; </em>Jutta Bindewald &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
          <li class="red">SouJava &#8211; <em>excused</em></li>
          <li>Twitter &#8211; Chris Aniszczyk &#8211; <em>present</em><span class="red-bold"></span></li>
        </ul>
        <p>Total attendance: 13 of 16 voting members</p></td>
    </tr>
    <tr> 
      <td colspan="2">Since 75% of the ME EC's 11 voting members were present, 
        that EC was <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> for this meeting<br />
        Since 75% of the SE/EE EC's 16 voting members were present, that EC was 
        <strong class="style2">quorate</strong> for this meeting</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<h3>Changes in status as a result of non-attendance at this meeting</h3>
<p>The <a href="http://jcp.org/en/procedures/ec_standing_rules">EC Standing Rules</a> 
  state the following penalties for non-attendance at EC meetings (note those 
  who participate in face-to-face meetings by phone are officially counted as 
  <strong>absent</strong>): </p>
<ul>
  <li>Missing two meetings in a row results in a loss of voting privileges until 
    two consecutive meetings have been attended.</li>
  <li>Missing five meetings in a row, or missing two-thirds of the meetings in 
    any consecutive 12-month period results in loss of the EC seat.</li>
</ul>
<p>There were no status changes following this meeting, but both AT&amp;T and 
  RIM were warned that if they do not attend the October meeting they will lose 
  their seats (AT&amp;T because they would have missed two thirds of the meetings 
  since the Standing Rules went into effect, and RIM because they would have missed 
  five meetings in a row.)</p>
<p>Note: Ericsson and SouJava were excused from attendance due to unexpected family 
  illnesses.</p>
<h3>Logistics for the JSR 358 Expert Group session</h3>
<p>Steve Wolfe from IBM had asked the EC to consider the &quot;attendance rules&quot; 
  for the JSR 358 Expert Group portion of this meeting. He argued that the EC 
  Standing Rules, which do not guarantee real-time two-way communications to those 
  who attend by phone, should not apply to the portions of the EC meeting when 
  the EC is in session as the Expert Group for JSR 358. Patrick agreed to raise 
  this for discussion at the beginning of this meeting.</p>
<p>After a very brief discussion members agreed with Steve's position, and promised 
  to open up the phone line for full two-way communication during the JSR 358 
  portion of the meeting.</p>
<h3>Personnel changes</h3>
<p>Patrick reported EC personnel changes (see the <a href="PMO-topics-September-2012.pdf">PMO 
  presentation</a> for details.) Scott Jameson asked why CableLabs resigned their 
  seat. Patrick explained that the recent announcements of direction for Java 
  ME, coupled with the decision to postpone modularity from Java SE 8 to Java 
  SE 9, left them with no viable future path to evolve their CDC-based software. 
  Consequently they felt they could not justify their continued participation 
  in the EC. (For background on this matter see the see the <a href="http://jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/summaries/2011/May2011-public-minutes.html">minutes</a> 
  of a discussion on a presentation given by Jon Courtney (<em>The other Java 
  ME</em>) at the EC's face-to-face meeting in Korea in May 2011.)</p>
<p>Don Deutsch asked whether those who are in jeopardy of losing their seats due 
  to non-attendance receive a private warning from the PMO. Patrick responded 
  that they did. Don suggested that it would be helpful to add such information 
  to the meeting minutes in the section following the roll-call. Patrick agreed 
  to do so, and has implemented this suggestion in these minutes (see above.)</p>
<h3>EC stats</h3>
<p>Patrick presented the usual <a href="EC_Stats11September2012.pdf">EC stats</a> 
  and (as usual) reminded EC members of their obligation to vote in JSR ballots.</p>
<h3>Membership update </h3>
<p>Patrick presented the first of several PMO reports, on the PMO's activities 
  to update the membership lists and to collect fees (see the <a href="ProgramOfficeReport_September2012.pdf">PMO 
  report</a>.) </p>
<p>He reported that although we are seeing a steady flow of new membership applications, 
  including some from corporations, because our membership lists have not been 
  &quot;cleaned&quot; in several years due to the transition from Sun to Oracle 
  and the fact that membership fees were waived during the first year after that, 
  the number of paying corporate members would be significantly reduced.</p>
<p>The reasons for this were several: many corporations who had previously paid 
  fees are now entitled to free membership as Java licensees. Others were unwilling 
  or unable to pay the yearly $5000 fee, or had ceased to exist as independent 
  companies due to mergers, acquisitions, or bankruptcies. Still others had joined 
  in order to participate in a particular JSR that was now complete, and therefore 
  had no further interest in participating.</p>
<p>Discussion focussed primarily on the difficulty of collecting fees, and on 
  the relatively small amount that fees bring in (less than $200K/year) relative 
  to the cost of running the PMO. Several members suggested that the fees be reduced 
  eliminated if they are inhibiting participation. (Patrick noted that in the 
  context of the JSR 358 work we have plans to introduce a new lower fee for small 
  companies.) </p>
<p>Gil Tene asked what benefits accrue to corporate members. Patrick responded 
  that recent transparency initiatives have blurred the difference between non-members 
  and members (since non-members can now observe the work of Expert Groups and 
  can even participate in an informal manner) but pointed out that membership 
  is still required to join an Expert Group. Don Deutsch noted that this is no 
  different from other standards organizations that adopt a &quot;pay to play&quot; 
  model. Scott Jameson argued that there is value in requiring fees - those who 
  have some &quot;skin in the game&quot; tend to participate more.</p>
<p>Gil Tene argued that it seemed unfair that only 20% of the corporate members 
  pay fees (the other 80% being entitled to free membership because they license 
  Java from Oracle.) Patrick responded that in this role they do pay substantial 
  sums to Oracle, and that it would be difficult and unreasonable to have them 
  pay more.</p>
<p>Don Deutsch argued that cost of running the PMO and the matter of fees is really 
  Oracle's problem, and need not be discussed by the EC. He was more concerned 
  about the cases in which corporations encourage their employees to join the 
  JCP as individuals in order to avoid paying fees, noting that in this way their 
  IP commitments are reduced. (Individuals do not make &quot;blanket&quot; commitments 
  of essential patents for all JSRs as do corporations.) Gile Tene and others 
  agreed that this problem needs to be fixed. (The matter was taken up again during 
  the JSR 358 discussions on the following day.)</p>
<p>In further discussion someone asked whether the <a href="http://jcp.org/en/participation/JUG_list">list 
  of JUG members on jcp.org</a> is up to date. Patrick promised to find out. (It 
  is, and currently lists 32 JUG members.) He also agreed to find out how many 
  corporate members resigned or changed status for each of the various reasons 
  given in the report.</p>
<p>Patrick then reported that the next stages of the operation would be to review 
  all of the licensee members (ensuring that we have up to date contact information) 
  and then to clean up the individual membership list. (He has reported several 
  times in the past that since we do not charge individuals there are many people 
  still listed as members who have effectively &quot;lapsed.&quot;) The cleanup 
  plan will involve cancelling the memberships of those individuals we cannot 
  contact, and requiring all individual members to reconfirm each year through 
  a web-form that they wish to continue as members. The results will be a significantly 
  smaller but much higher-quality membership list. </p>
<h3>JavaOne plans</h3>
<p>Patrick reported the PMO's plans for JCP events at JavaOne (see the <a href="ProgramOfficeReport_September2012.pdf">PMO 
  report</a>.) Van Riper pointed out that the public EC meeting clashes with community 
  events on the Sunday, and that this would be a problem. Gil Tene said that in 
  general Sunday was not the best choice for this event since many people do not 
  attend on that day. Patrick agreed that this might be a problem (as indeed it 
  was - very few people attended the public EC meeting) and promised to try to 
  find a better time-slot next year.</p>
<h3>JCP 2.8 scorecard</h3>
<p>Patrick reported the status of JSRs' adoption of JCP 2.8. He noted that the 
  majority of in-flight JSRs have voluntarily upgraded to 2.8, and encouraged 
  all members to pressure the others to do so. Gil Tene asked the PMO to let EC 
  members know if any Spec Leads are resisting migration, and if so what their 
  reasons were. Patrick promised to do so. For full details and statistics see 
  the <a href="ProgramOfficeReport_September2012.pdf">PMO report</a>.</p>
<p>Patrick noted that we need help in tracking whether EGs that have agreed to 
  operate under 2.8 are actually operating transparently. He encouraged the community 
  to help with this.</p>
<p>Mike DeNicola suggested that in future JSRs that are not operating under 2.8 
  should be ineligible for the annual awards. </p>
<h3>JavaOne overview</h3>
<p>Patrick then inserted into the record a <a href="JavaOne_2012_Update_Java_Embedded_Overview.pdf">presentation</a> 
  giving an overview of Oracle's plans for JavaOne.</p>
<h3>The Open Geospatial Consortium</h3>
<p>Werner Keil gave a <a href="OGC_s.pdf">presentation</a> on the work of the 
  Open Geospatial Consortium. Don Deutsch asked Werner what he was asking of the 
  JCP since Werner had labeled his presentation <em>Collaboration with the Open 
  Geospatial Consortium</em>. Don noted that the work of the Consortium is wide-ranging, 
  and that they are collaborating with a large number of standards organizations. 
  He asked who might drive such collaboration with the JCP. Werner responded that 
  several of the participants in the OGC are interested in Java, and that maybe 
  they would do so. Calinel Pasteanu asked how OGC and JCP specs might overlap. 
  Mike Milinkovich responded that in the future there might well be JCP specs 
  in these areas. He suggested that if so the JCP should reference OGC specs rather 
  than reinvent the wheel.</p>
<h3>Inactive JSRs</h3>
<p>Patrick provided an update on the Inactive JSR situation. He noted that the 
  PMO has made excellent progress and that the number of JSRs labeled <em>Inactive 
  </em>has been reduced from 50 to 2. For details and statistics see the <a href="InactiveJSRsSeptember2012.pdf">presentation</a>.</p>
<p>Gil Tene asked whether we have problems with JSRs &quot;in limbo.&quot; Patrick 
  responded that there are problems in these cases. If the work of an Expert Group 
  becomes stalled it is not usually feasible for someone else to take on the work 
  since it's unclear who owns the IP that has already been contributed. This is 
  something that should be addressed in JSR 358.</p>
<h3>Java SE8 community involvement</h3>
<p>Ben Evans provided a verbal update (no presentation) on the Adopt-a-JSR and 
  Adopt-OpenJDK programs. He noted that these were originally conceived as two 
  separate programs, but to the average Java developer who &quot;just wants to 
  contribute to Java&quot; there is no difference. The LJC is working to figure 
  out how the programs should be adjusted accordingly.</p>
<p>He reported that some JSRs (for example, JMS 2.0) have very little community 
  coverage. This is unfortunate, but since people are volunteering they will do 
  so in the areas that interest them, and we cannot force them to participate 
  in something that they do not find compelling. </p>
<p>Patrick asked whether any volunteers were doing non-technical work. Ben responded 
  that they were not - Java developers want to do technical work. He suggested 
  talking to Bruno Souza from SouJava and Sonya Barry (from java.net) about the 
  possibility of automating the process of tracking activity on public mailing 
  lists and issue trackers.</p>
<p>Ben reported that several &quot;hack days&quot; have been held in London, and 
  that these have been extremely successful, each with as many participants as 
  they can handle (since they need instructors.) About 50 developers have attended 
  each event. </p>
<p>Some JSRs (310, Identity) have had much more focussed participation with a 
  small number of developers helping out.</p>
<h3>How the EC reviews JSRs</h3>
<p>Gil Tene led a discussion on the topic (previously unscheduled in the agenda) 
  of how the EC reviews JSRs. He expressed concern about the difficulty of reviewing 
  the TCK, and suggested that Expert Groups should make a presentation to the 
  EC before the Final Approval Ballot in order to explain and justify that their 
  work is complete. He said he would be particularly interested in a presentation 
  from the developers of the JCK (the TCK for Java SE) since this is probably 
  the most significant and thorough of all TCKs. Patrick suggested that the state 
  of the Issue Tracker should also be reviewed.</p>
<p>Mike Milinkovich pointed out that at Eclipse they do a <em>Release Review</em> 
  for each project before it completes. (There is a template for this process.) 
  The review does not necessarily take the form of a meeting but is rather exception-based, 
  and a meeting will be called if there are significant concerns. An imporant 
  part of the Review is the presentation of an IP log.</p>
<p>Lakshmi Dontamsetti pointed out that our current processes already require 
  Expert Groups to provide a TCK Coverage Document summarizing the quality of 
  the TCK. Patrick noted that even the Oracle TCK teams now tend to produce these 
  by rote, using boilerplate language. He asked (as did Don Deutsch) which EC 
  members do detailed reviews of TCKs before voting in Final Approval Ballots. 
  Not many admitted to doing so. Calinel Pasteanu pointed out that those EC members 
  who intend to license a JSR will do a deep review, since their business will 
  depend on the quality of the JSR's artifacts.</p>
<p>Gil Tene repeated that he wants reassurance that a JSR is of high quality - 
  he does not simply want to &quot;rubber-stamp&quot; it.</p>
<p>Marquart Franz asked whether we really have a problem here, and noted that 
  improving the quality of the RI and TCK is very expensive. Don Deutsch suggested 
  that the whole process might be &quot;self-auditing&quot; and that any TCK problems 
  would surface through the test appeals process once the TCK was actually put 
  into use. Jutta Bindewald asked whether we should record who performed &quot;deep 
  reviews.&quot; Don Deutsch, pointing out that Oracle is the Spec Lead for the 
  majority of JSRs, asked whether members trusted Oracle to do a good job. Scott 
  Jameson suggested that any review should be performed &quot;offline&quot; since 
  he would need to involve various technical people from HP.</p>
<p>Since several members seemed to feel that additional scrutiny might be unnecessary 
  and simply impose more process overhead, Patrick suggested that Mike Milinkovich 
  prepare a presentation on Eclipse's Release Review process for a future EC meeting, 
  and that we continue the discussion after that. Mike agreed to do so. </p>
<h3>Spec Lead presentation - JSR 344: JavaServer Faces 2.2</h3>
<p>Ed Burns gave a presentation on <a href="20120904-JSF_2_2_JCP_EC.pdf">JSR 344: 
  JavaServer Faces 2.2</a>. He was asked how many members of the Expert Group 
  are active. He responded: about 12. Ed also reported that there is a large community 
  of non-EG members who participate more casually. Patrick asked him how the requirements 
  of JSR 348 (JCP 2.8) are impacting his work, and whether we missed anything. 
  He responded that there were no problems, and that it was simple to &quot;migrate&quot; 
  to 2.8 since he was already meeting its transparency requirements.</p>
<p>Since JSF has gone through several revisions Ed was asked whether the same 
  EG members participated from release to release. He responded that there has 
  been lots of continuity, and noted that a &quot;train model&quot; for releases 
  was a good thing. He noted that because the work is carried out transparently 
  non-EG members have also made significant contributions. When asked how he manages 
  contributions from non-EG members he said that he requires that significant 
  contributions be made under the Oracle Contributor Agreement (OCA) but that 
  for more casual contributions he relies on the java.net Terms of Use. </p>
<h3>Spec Lead presentation - JSR 353: Java API for JSON Processing</h3>
<p>Jitendra Kotamraju gave a presentation on <a href="JSR353_JCP_09112012.pdf">JSR 
  353: Java API for JSON Processing</a>. Patrick asked whether he had received 
  feedback from non-EG members. He responded that he had received a little. Ben 
  Evans asked whether the Chennai Java User Group had made any contributions through 
  the Adopt-a-JSR program. Jita said that they had not done much. Ben promised 
  to follow up. Gile Tene asked how the TCK was progressing. Jita said it was 
  coming along fine.</p>
<p>We then adjourned for the day. On Wednesday we re-assembled as the JSR 358 
  Expert Group.</p>
<h3>JSR 358 Expert Group session</h3>
<p>Steve Wolfe presented a <a href="Hub-and-Spoke-Alternative.pdf">proposal 
  for &quot;flattening&quot; the IP flow</a> as an alternative to the current 
  <em>hub and spoke</em> model whereby IP vests in the Spec Lead who in turn licenses 
  it to implementors. He noted that having IP vest in (flow through) the Spec 
  Lead, and permitting the Spec Lead to choose the licensing terms was introduced 
  in the early days of the JCP as an incentive to encourage organizations to take 
  on the Spec Lead role.</p>
<p>Mike DeNicola asked when IP grants would &quot;vest&quot; - when made, or when 
  a JSR went final. Steve answered &quot;when made.&quot;</p>
<p>Noting that the proposal mentions special IP rights for Oracle to permit it 
  to fulfil its obligations under the TLDA (Technology License and Distribution 
  Agreement,) Patrick noted that Oracle gets no special rights now. Gil Tene asked 
  why this is necessary. Steve responded because Oracle is Spec Lead for the platforms. 
  Gil asked whether this proposal would grant rights to Oracle that they do not 
  have today. Mike Milinkovich pointed out that if special rights are granted 
  to Oracle then this proposal could not be considered &quot;flat&quot; - there 
  is still a &quot;hub.&quot; Gil Tene noted that the proposal would decrease 
  transparency, since it would be necessary to decode all existing TLDAs in order 
  to understand what rights were being granted. David Bosschaert suggested that 
  all future TLDAs might also need to be considered. </p>
<p>Calinel asked whether licensees would need to negotiate agreements with each 
  contributor to a JSR. Steve responded &quot;no&quot; - the grants would be automatic. 
  Calinel asked &quot;what about litigation situations?&quot; Wouldn't these require 
  dealing with all contributors - knowing who contributed what? David suggested 
  that IP could be vested into a not-for-profit organization. Gil Tene responded 
  that this would still be a &quot;hub&quot; albeit no longer Oracle. Steve responded 
  that different kinds of IP are treated differently. Patent rights would flow 
  directly to end-users. Mike Milinkovich noted that this is how Eclipse works 
  today except for the special grants to Oracle.</p>
<p>Mike DeNicola pointed out that the real issue is not Oracle's TLDA obligations, 
  but rather that the &quot;special grant&quot; is needed for inclusion in the 
  platforms. Steve Wolfe noted that the problem is caused by existing TLDAs and 
  stated that we cannot introduce changes that would require these to be renegotiated. 
</p>
<p>Mike Milinkovich stated that if IP does not vest in a single owner then we 
  would need to standardize all Spec, RI, and TCK licenses. Steve Wolfe disagreed. 
  Mike said that sections 3 and 4 of the Eclipse Public License provide an example 
  of how this kind of proposal might be implemented. </p>
<p>Mike DeNicola insisted that the TLDA should not be referenced. Steve Wolfe 
  agreed that it would be preferable to say &quot;you give the following supplementary 
  rights to Oracle to permit inclusion in the platform...&quot; He noted that 
  the complexities of the IP regime and licensing models inhibit people from joining 
  the JCP.</p>
<p>Gil Tene suggested that broad essential patent grants (such as are defined 
  in Section 6 of the current JSPA) on Royalty Free terms would not be acceptable 
  to members. If such broad grants are made, they would need to be on RAND terms.</p>
<p>Scott Jameson pointed out that EC members need to know whether this proposal 
  might be acceptable to Oracle. Don Deutsch promised to provide a response at 
  the October EC meeting.</p>
<p>Anish Karmarkar asked why it is necessary to call out end-users at all, , since 
  they would be covered by the 'exhaustion doctrine'. Steve Wolfe responded that 
  he wanted to ensure that everyone in the value-chain is included. Mike Milinkovich 
  noted that there is (and would still be) a separate license spelling out end-user 
  rights.</p>
<p>[A placeholder issue has been created to track this. See<a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-41"> 
  http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-41</a>.]</p>
<p>David Bosschaert then presented <a href="RedHat-JCPECIPFlow.pdf">Red Hat's 
  position on IP flow</a>. Patrick noted that the proposal made no mention of 
  essential patent grants by &quot;non contributors&quot; (as currently defined 
  in Section 6 of the JSPA.) Don Deutsch noted that the requirements called out 
  in the first two bullets on the slide are already implemented today. David responded 
  that the third bullet is an endorsement of a flat rather than a hub-and-spoke 
  model. Gil Tene noted that the proposal only addresses the Spec license, and 
  ignores the RI and TCK, which must also be considered. Members agreed that the 
  Red Hat proposal does not add anything significant to the more detailed proposal 
  by IBM.</p>
<p>Ben Evans reported the London Java Community's position verbally (no presentation.) 
  He stated that the LJC agrees with Red Hat's position, but is concerned about 
  the broad patent grants in Section 6, which he feels might discourage people 
  from participating. The requirement to opt-out might be a discouragement now 
  that full transparency is required, since the simple act of identifying patents 
  might be considered a problem. He asked whether this section might be eliminated. 
  Gil Tene responded that doing so would eliminate rights that have been granted 
  up to now. Steve Wolfe asked Ben to clarify what he meant by elimination. Ben 
  responded that he meant only to eliminate the obligations incurred by those 
  who do not participate in JSRs. </p>
<p>David Bosschaert asked why the grants in Section 6 are so broad. Steve responded 
  that at the time the current version of the JSPA was drawn up there was very 
  little Java adoption, and that they wanted to create an environment with the 
  least possible uncertainty about IP rights. David asked whether it would be 
  risky to remove this now. Steve responded that this would introduce additional 
  uncertainty. David responded that non-JCP members might also have relevant patent 
  rights and that this issue cannot be addressed by language in the JSPA. Steve 
  agreed, but asserted that covering JCP members was better than nothing. He also 
  noted that the new transparency requirements make it easier to ascertain when 
  your rights might be at risk, and therefore easier to opt out of the obligation 
  to license them. Van Riper stated that Google supports the elimination of these 
  obligations for those who are not involved in a JSR.</p>
<p>Someone else noted that the JSPA obliges EG members to disclose relevant patents. 
  Patrick responded that we have no evidence that people are doing this, and that 
  the PMO certainly maintains no records of any such patent disclosures. Steve 
  Wolfe suggested that members review the recently concluded Broadcom/Qualcomm 
  patent litigation case. </p>
<p>By this point several members expressed frustration and concerns about how 
  we can make progress on this issue. We recognized that we cannot ask lawyers 
  to draft more precise language until we've agreed on what we want them to say. 
</p>
<p>Patrick noted that we conducted a Doodle poll with very precise language on 
  this particular issue. The question posed was &quot;Section 6 of the JSPA obliges 
  members to license Essential Patents (unless they proactively opt out of doing 
  so) even for JSRs with which they have no involvement. Should we limit this 
  obligation to those who are members of the Expert Group?&quot; Only 12 EC members 
  responded, and almost all of them said that they could not answer without further 
  discussion. An attempt to conduct a straw poll on the same question in this 
  meeting failed. It was suggested that we vote on this question during the next 
  EC meeting. Don Deutsch asked whether we could vote asynchronously, between 
  meetings. Steve responded that experience has shown that the Doodle polls don't 
  focus peoples' attention, and that people are not willing to vote on these matters 
  without exploring alternatives. He volunteered to do so.</p>
<p>Stefano Andreani asked for more details of IBM's proposal - what does &quot;standard 
  terms&quot; mean, for example? He said that all license terms must be clear 
  and understandable.</p>
<p>Patrick agreed to log an issue to track the flat IP proposal (see <a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-41">http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-41</a>.) 
  Steve Wolfe promised to create another presentation on outbound licensing, which 
  was not addressed in this proposal.</p>
<p>Patrick then reviewed the content of our <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr358/pages/Home">java.net 
  project</a> and we briefly reviewed the items from our <a href="http://jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/summaries/2012/JSR358-July31-2012.pdf">list 
  of proposed changes</a> and our <a href="http://java.net/jira/secure/IssueNavigator.jspa?mode=hide&requestId=11399">Issue 
  Tracker</a>. We agreed to drop the <em>Governance</em> issue since no substantive 
  changes have been proposed. On essential patent grants, Steve Wolfe promised 
  to incorporate this item into a future presentation. </p>
<p>Gil Tene made a presentation on <a href="JCP_Sep2012_IndependentImplementation.pdf">Independent 
  Implementations</a>. He noted that language in the JSR 336 TCK license appears 
  to effectively prohibit any independent implementation of the specification. 
  Patrick responded that the language in question seems to have been carried over 
  from other licenses.</p>
<p>We agreed that the main issues Gil raised are:</p>
<ul>
  <li>The <em>Added Value</em> requirement</li>
  <li>The requirement that disclosed licenses must be consistent with the JSPA</li>
  <li>(Independent) Implementations must be explicitly enabled</li>
  <li><em>Shared Code</em> language must be clarified and hopefully eliminated</li>
</ul>
<p>Patrick agreed to raise these issues with Oracle Legal. In the meantime, an 
  issue has been logged to track this. See<a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-42"> 
  http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR358-42</a>.</p>
<p>Werner Keil led a brief discussion of <em>Transplant JSRs. </em>Steve Wolfe 
  provided some background: this proposal originated in JSR 306, and was intended 
  to enable bringing into the JCP work that had been done through external standards 
  bodies. The main concern was how the JCP's and the external specifications could 
  be kept in sync. Typically some kind of &quot;side agreement&quot; would be 
  necessary to enable this. Scott Jameson reiterated what he has stated on other 
  occasions: that HP is opposed to &quot;side agreements.&quot; We noted that 
  a fundamental problem is that the JCP ties IP rights to compatibility while 
  other standards bodies don't. As when we've discussed this issue in the past 
  we reached no agreement on whether or not we should pursue it.</p>
<p>Finally we discussed the role of individuals within the JCP, this being the 
  only substantive issue on our list that we had not yet discussed during this 
  meeting. Patrick restated some of the concerns: that individuals may in fact 
  be acting as <em>Agents</em> of their employers, that IP grants made by individuals 
  are narrower than those made by organizations (who are subject to Section 6 
  of the JSPA) and that the Exhibit B process is complex, error-prone, and potentially 
  ineffective in securing IP. </p>
<p>Someone asked whether an individual could join a second Expert Group without 
  producing a second Exhibit B addressing that JSR. Patrick responded that the 
  PMO does require an additional Exhibit B.</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe asked how other standards bodies handle this problem. He noted 
  that Apache makes no distinction between individuals and corporations, and suggested 
  that Spec Leads have an obligation to be vigilant. Mike DeNicola argued that 
  someone who is employed by a corporation is necessarily an <em>Agent</em> of 
  that corporation and should not be permitted to join as an individual. Van Riper 
  disagreed, pointing out that some corporations encourage their employees to 
  explore their private interests by participating in standards-setting and open-source 
  organizations. Roger Mahler pointed out that such a rule would effectively prohibit 
  employees of non-tech companies from participating in the JCP since those companies, 
  having no direct business interest in Java, would not be willing to join themselves.</p>
<p>Ben Evans suggested that we address the <em>temporal</em> aspect, noting that 
  the JSPA is signed at a particular point in time. The signee should be obliged 
  to inform the PMO if something has changed.</p>
<p>Gil Tene repeated a suggestion he had made previously, and which is recorded 
  in the minutes of the May EC meeting. Quoting those minutes: &quot;Gile Tene 
  argued that individuals should not be treated separately from organizations. 
  He noted that individuals and corporations are independent legal entities, and 
  that individuals have many legal relationships with other entities (many corporations 
  and other individuals). An employment relationship is just a legal relationship 
  between two such entities. We cannot hope to control individuals by requiring 
  some agreement terms with all current, past and future employers, any more than 
  we could hope to require corporations to get the approval of all current, past, 
  and future business partners. He therefore suggested that Exhibit B be dropped, 
  and that instead we require that the signee of the JSPA assert that they have 
  the legal right to make appropriate IP grants.&quot;</p>
<p>Steve Wolfe argued that Spec Leads should perform due diligence before accepting 
  IP from an individual member where their IP rights might intersect with their 
  employer's. Mike DeNicola responded that if we adopt IBM's flat IP proposal 
  the Spec Lead would have less incentive to do so. Van Riper argued that assertions 
  about the right to grant IP should be made when that IP is contributed rather 
  than in advance. </p>
<p>Werner Keil pointed to the Open Geospatial Consortium's individual membership 
  role, noting that only those who are genuinely self-employed or contractors 
  are permitted to join. Don Deutsch asked whether we should adopt a similar requirement. 
  Van Riper responded that if we did we would need to reconsider the corporate 
  membership fees. Patrick pointed out that OASIS charges a $300 fee for individual 
  members, and asks them to assert that they have not assigned &quot;their&quot; 
  IP to others. He noted that this would effectively prohibit all US individuals 
  who are employted by tech companies. </p>
<p>Mike DeNicola asked why individuals should get the same voting rights as large 
  corporations. Gil Tene suggested that we review the Apache Individual Contribution 
  agreement. We agreed that Spec Leads need training in IPR issues.</p>
<p>As when we have previously discussed this issue, we reached no conclusions 
  other than to agree that it is important :(</p>
<p>Patrick then thanked Deutsche Telekom for their hospitality and for the exellent 
  logistical support, and the meeting adjourned. </p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body></html>


<!-- ** BEGIN: footer.jsp ** //-->








</td>
</tr>
</table>

<!-- ** END: Content Table ** //-->

<!-- ** BEGIN: Footer Table ** //-->

<div id="footer" style="clear: both;">
    <div class="footleft">
        <a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a>
    </div>
	
    <div class="botbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="23" width="1"></div>

    <div class="footleft2">
         &copy; 2019, Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. 
        <a href="/en/home/terms">Terms of Use</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html">Privacy Policy</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/third-party-trademarks/third-party-trademarks-078568.html">Trademarks</a>
    </div>

    <div class="footright">
        <img src="/images/common/logo_oracle_footer.gif" alt="Oracle Corporation" height="22" width="91">
    </div>

    <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="30" width="1"></div>
</div>

<!-- ** END: Footer Table ** //-->



<!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->



</body>
</html>
<!-- ** END: footer.jsp ** //-->

