
<!-- ** BEGIN: header.jsp ** //-->






















<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3c.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">

<html>
<head>
    

   
    <link href="/includes/css/menu.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <link href="/includes/css/style.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>
    <!--[if lt IE 6]><link href="/includes/css/style5.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <!--[if gte IE 5]><link href="/includes/css/style6.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" ></link><![endif]-->
    <link href="/includes/css/tabs.css"  rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"></link>

    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/tabs.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript" src="/includes/scripts/menu.js"></script>
   

    

    
        <title>The Java Community Process(SM) Program - communityprocess - summaries</title>
    

    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1">
</head>



<body onload="P7_initPM(0,1,0,0,-1)">

    <a name="top"></a>

    <div id="header">
	<div id="logo">
		<a href="/en/home/index"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="Java Community Process" height="81" width="151"></a>
	</div>
	<div id="tools">
		<div class="search">
			<form name="search" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" onsubmit="return validate_search()">
				<input name="id" value="Search JSRs" size="16" class="form" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
				<a href="javascript:document.search.submit()" onclick="return validate_search()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
			</form>
		</div>
		<div class="tools">
			<a href="/en/press/pressroom">Press Room</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399">Get Java Here</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;
			<!-- <a href="javascript:void(0)">Print Format</a> &nbsp;|&nbsp;&nbsp; -->
		</div>

	</div>
	<div style="clear: right;"></div>

        

	<div class="topbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="3" width="154"></div>
	<div id="update"> </div>
    </div>


    

        <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Table ** //-->

        <table width="100%" border="0" cellpadding="0" cellspacing="0">

            <tr>

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Navigation Column ** //-->
                <td width="150" id="leftcontent" valign="top">
                    <!-- Navigation Placeholder //-->

                    

                    <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>

        <!-- begin find JSRs form -->
        <!-- IMPORTANT! do not convert this form to Struts < html : form > tag.  javascript change of form.action property fails. -->
        <img src="/images/hd_find-jsrs.gif" alt="Find JSRs" height="18" width="150">
        <form name="findjsr" action="/en/jsr/summary" method="get" class="pt5" onsubmit="return validate_findjsr()">
            <input name="id" size="18" class="form" value="Search JSRs" onfocus="nullify_if_equal(this, 'Search JSRs')" type="text">
	    <a href="javascript:document.findjsr.submit()" onclick="return validate_findjsr()"><img src="/images/button_go.gif" width="21" height="16" border="0" alt="Submit this Search" name="sub_search"></a>
        </form><br><br>

        <!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->

        <ul id="p7PMnav">
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/platform">JSRs by Platform</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/tech">JSRs by Technology</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/stage">JSRs by Stage</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/ec">JSRs by Committee</a></li>
            <li><a href="/en/jsr/all">List of All JSRs</a></li>

            <!--end find JSRs form -->
            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--begin my JCP -->
            <img src="/images/hd_my-jcp.gif" alt="My JCP" height="18" width="150">
            

          <form name="login" method="get" action="/en/user/login" >
            <input name="Sign-in" type="submit" title="Sign-in" value="Sign-in" />
          </form>

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="3" alt=""></div>
            <div class="noNav">
                <a href="/en/user/register">Register for Site</a>
            </div>

             <div class="bar"><img src="/images/hr_dots1.gif" alt="" height="3" width="150"></div>
           <div class="noNav" style="color: #666666; padding: 0;">
              Use of JCP site is subject to the
              <a href="/en/home/terms" style="display:inline;padding: 0">JCP Terms of Use</a> and the
              <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html" style="display:inline;padding: 0" href="">Oracle Privacy Policy</a>
          </div>

            

            <div style="clear:both"><img src="/images/global/spacer.gif" width="1" height="25" alt=""></div>

            <!--begin JCP info -->
            <img src="/images/hd_jcp-info.gif" alt="JCP Info" height="18" width="150">

            <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview" class="p7PMtrg">About JCP</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/overview">Program Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/procedures/jcp2">JCP Process Document</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/calendar">Calendar</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/members">JCP Members</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/committee">Executive Committee</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/whatsnew/elections">Elections</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/participation/overview" class="p7PMtrg">Get Involved</a>
		<ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/overview">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/participation/membership">Becoming a JCP Member</a></li>
		</ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contents" class="p7PMtrg">Community Resources</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/contents">Overview</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tutorials">Tutorials</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/multimedia">JCP Podcasts</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/guide">Spec Lead Guide</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/tdk">TCK Tool & Info</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/resources/license_reference">License Reference</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/press/pmo" class="p7PMtrg">Community News</a>
                <ul>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/pmo">News</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/news/awards/awards_main">Programs &amp; Awards</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/releases">Press Releases</a></li>
                    <li><a href="/en/press/success">Success Stories</a></li>
                </ul>
            </li>

            <li><a href="/en/introduction/faq">FAQ</a></li>

            <li><a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a></li>

            <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="25" width="1"></div>

            <!--[if lte IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav a{height:1em;}#p7PMnav li{height:1em;float:left;clear:both;width:100%}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 6]><style>#p7PMnav li{clear:none;}</style><![endif]-->
            <!--[if IE 7]><style>#p7PMnav a{zoom:100%;}#p7PMnav li{float:left;clear:both;width:100%;}</style><![endif]-->
        </ul>

        

        <!--begin ad space -->
        <div class="ads">
            <a href="http://java.com/java/download/index.jsp?cid=jdp78399" target="_blank"><img style="display: ;" src="/images/ad_banner2.gif" alt="Ad Banner" border="1" height="70" width="150"></a>
        </div>
        <!--end ad space -->

<!-- ** Menu End ** //-->
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>
&nbsp;<br>

    

                    &nbsp;<br>
                    <img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="1" height="150"><br>

              



                </td>
                <!-- ** END: Navigation Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Gutter Column ** //-->
		<td width="10" nowrap><img src="/images/common/trans.gif" alt="" width="10" height="1"></td>
                <!-- ** END: Gutter Column ** //-->

                <!-- ** BEGIN: Content Column ** //-->
                <td width="100%" valign="top">

    
<script type="text/javascript">

String.prototype.trim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+|\s+$/g,"");
}
String.prototype.ltrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/^\s+/,"");
}
String.prototype.rtrim = function() {
        return this.replace(/\s+$/,"");
}

function validate_search() {
	if (document.search.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.search.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function validate_findjsr() {
	if (document.findjsr.id.value == "Search JSRs" || document.findjsr.id.value.trim().length == 0) {
		alert("Search terms must be entered first");
		return false;
	}
	return true;
}

function nullify_if_equal(field, str) {
	// alert("val=" + field.value);
	if (field.value == str) {
		field.value = "";
	}
}

</script>
<!-- ** END: header.jsp ** //-->






<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=iso-8859-1" />

<title>JCP EC minutes (public): January 13-14, 2009</title><style type="text/css">
<!--
.style1 {color: #FF0000}
.style2 {color: #000000; }
-->
</style></head>

<body>
<h1 align="center">Executive Committee Meeting Minutes<br />
for 13-14 January, 2009</h1>
<div align="center">
  <p align="center"><em>version 0.3: August 25, 2009</em></p>
</div>
<h2><strong>Date</strong></h2>
<p>January 13-14,   2009</p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p> Santa Clara, CA USA, hosted by Sun Microsystems </p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<BR />
    <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/PMO-topics-January09.pdf">PMO Presentation</a> <BR /><BR />
<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tbody><tr>
    <td width="50%"><div align="center"><strong>Tuesday January 13 </strong></div></td>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>Wednesday january 14 </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td valign="top">
  <ul>
    <li>8:30 am: breakfast</li>
    <li>9:00 am: Roll call </li>
    <li>Agenda review</li>
    <li>Approve
        minutes and summary from previous
      meetings<ul>
        <li>December 2008 public and private minutes </li>
        </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/EC_Stats_9_January_2009.pdf">EC
    stats</a> (Heather) </li>
    <li>Personnel changes (Patrick) </li>
    <li>Qisda JSRs (Patrick) </li>
    <li>Status of Apache/Sun negotiations (Patrick) </li>
    <li>11:00 am: Spec Lead presentation - JSR 284: Resource Consumption Management
    API (Grzegorz Czajkowski, Google) </li>
    <li><a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/JCP2008.pdf">2008
    year in review</a> (Heather) </li>
    <li>Lunch </li>
    <li><a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/AsiaTripReport.pdf">Asia trip report</a> (Patrick) </li>
    <li>Java ME discussion (Sean Sheedy, Patrick) </li>
    <li>MSA2 (Kay Glahn)</li>
    <li>5:30 pm: adjourn</li>
    <li>6:30 pm: JCP party at Computer History Museum, Mountain View <br />
    </li>
  </ul>    
    </td>
    <td valign="top"><ul>
    <li>8:30 am: breakfast</li>
    <li>9:00 am: Roll call </li>
    <li>Agenda review</li>
    <li>Follow-up on ME discussion (Patrick) </li>
    <li>Filling Intel's vacated seat (Patrick) </li>
    <li><a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/Ericsson_JCP_Governance.pdf">JCP Governance</a> (Jens Jenssen) </li>
    <li>JSR 215 Maintenance Release (Patrick, Heather) </li>
    <li>2009 calendar
      <ul>
        <li>Dates and times for teleconferences.</li>
        <li>Locations for face-to-face meetings. </li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Wrap-up</li>
    <li>12:30 pm: adjourn </li>
  </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>
<h2>Attendance (January 13) </h2>
<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tbody><tr>
    <td colspan="2"><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2"><ul>
      <li>Patrick Curran, Max Lanfranconi, Heather VanCura</li>
      </ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%"><div align="center"><strong>ME EC </strong></div></td>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>SE/EE EC </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
            
      <li> Ericsson &#8211;&nbsp; Jens Jenssen &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>IBM &#8211; David Girle &#8211; <em>present</em></li>     
      <li>Motorola &#8211;  Mike Milikich &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Nokia &#8211; Kimmo L&ouml;yt&auml;n&auml;  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Orange France - Cuithlauac Alvarado  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Philips &#8211; Jon Piesing <em>&#8211; present </em></li>
	<li class="style1">Qisda &#8211; <em>not present</em></li>
      <li>RIM &#8211; James Warden <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      <li>Samsung &#8211; Hobum (Vincent) Kwon <em>&#8211;  present</em></li>
	  <li>Sean Sheedy <em>&#8211;  present</em></li>
      <li>Siemens &#8211 Christoph Kuhmuench <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      <li class="style1">Sony Ericsson <em>&#8211; not present</em></li>
      <li>Sun &#8211; Calinel Pasteanu, Roger Riggs <em>&#8211; present</em> </li>
      <li class="style1">Time Warner Cable <em> &#8211; not present</em></li>
      <li>Vodafone &#8211; Kay Glahn <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      </ul>    
      <p>Total attendance: 12</p></td>
    <td><ul>
      <li class="style2">Apache &#8211; Geir Magnusson &#8211; <em>          present</em></li>
      <li>Eclipse <em></em> &#8211; Mike Milinkovitch <em>&#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
		<li>Ericsson - Jens Jensen <em> &#8211; present </em></li>
      <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola  <em>&#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
      <li>Google &#8211; Josh Bloch, Bob Lee &#8211; <em> present </em></li>
      <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
      <li>IBM &#8211; Mark Thomas &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Intel &#8211; Wayne Carr  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
	<li class=style1>Werner Keil &#8211 <em> not present</em></li>
      <li>Doug Lea &#8211; <em>present </em></li>
      <li>Nortel &#8211; Adam Boyle  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
<li>RedHat &#8211; Scott Stark &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
      <li>SAP &#8211; Michael Bechauf, Vicki Shipkowitz &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
<li>Springsource - Rod Johnson &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
<li>Sun &#8211; Roberto Chinnici, Danny Coward &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
      </ul>
       <p>Total attendance: 15</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">Since 75% of each EC were present, there was a
      quorum for this meeting on January 13 </td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>

<h2>Attendance (January 14) </h2>
<table border="1" width="100%">
  <tbody><tr>
    <td colspan="2"><div align="center"><strong>PMO</strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2"><ul>
      <li>Patrick Curran, Max Lanfranconi, Heather VanCura</li>
      </ul></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td width="50%"><div align="center"><strong>ME EC </strong></div></td>
    <td><div align="center"><strong>SE/EE EC </strong></div></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td><ul>
            
      <li> Ericsson &#8211; Jens Jenssen &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>IBM &#8211; David Girle &#8211; <em>present</em></li>     
      <li>Motorola &#8211;  Mike Milikich &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Nokia &#8211; Kimmo L&ouml;yt&auml;n&auml;  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Orange France - Cuithlauac Alvarado  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Philips &#8211; Jon Piesing <em>&#8211; present </em></li>
	<li class="style1">Qisda &#8211; <em>not present</em></li>
      <li>RIM &#8211; James Warden <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      <li>Samsung &#8211; Hobum (Vincent) Kwon <em>&#8211;  present</em></li>
	  <li>Sean Sheedy <em>&#8211;  present</em></li>
      <li>Siemens &#8211 Christoph Kuhmuench <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      <li class="style1">Sony Ericsson <em>&#8211; not present</em></li>
      <li>Sun &#8211; Calinel Pasteanu <em>&#8211; present</em> </li>
      <li class="style1">Time Warner Cable <em> &#8211; not present</em></li>
      <li>Vodafone &#8211; Kay Glahn <em>&#8211; present</em></li>
      </ul>    
      <p>Total attendance: 12</p></td>
    <td><ul>
      <li class="style1">Apache &#8211;  <em>  not present</em></li>
      <li>Eclipse <em></em> &#8211; Mike Milinkovitch <em>&#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
		<li>Ericsson - Jens Jensen <em> &#8211; present </em></li>
        <li>Fujitsu &#8211; Mike DeNicola  <em>&#8211; <em>present</em></em></li>
      <li>Google &#8211; Josh Bloch, Bob Lee &#8211; <em> present </em></li>
      <li>HP &#8211; Scott Jameson &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
      <li>IBM &#8211; Mark Thomas &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
      <li>Intel &#8211; Wayne Carr  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
	<li class=style1>Werner Keil &#8211 <em> not present</em></li>
      <li>Doug Lea &#8211; <em>present </em></li>
      <li class=style1>Nortel &#8211;  <em>not present</em></li>
      <li>Oracle &#8211; Don Deutsch  &#8211; <em>present</em></li>
<li>RedHat &#8211; Scott Stark &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
      <li class=style1>SAP &#8211;  <em> not present</em></li>
<li>Springsorce - Rod Johnson &#8211; <em> present</em></li>
<li>Sun &#8211; Roberto Chinnici, Danny Coward &#8211;<em> present</em></li>
      </ul>
       <p>Total attendance: 12</p></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td colspan="2">Since 75% of each EC were present, there was a
      quorum for this meeting on January 14 </td>
  </tr>
</tbody></table>
<h2> Minutes: January 13</h2>
<h3>Minutes of previous meeting </h3>
<p>The ECs reviewed the new structure of  the public minutes page on jcp.org.
  After some discussion of the December minutes the ECs decided that they needed
  more time to review them. It was agreed that the minutes would be re-circulated
  by email, and that they would be considered approved unless susbstantive comments
  were received within a week. Any such comments would be resolved via email  </p>
<p>(For the record, the minutes were later approved.) </p>
<h3><strong>EC statistics</strong></h3>
<p>Heather delivered the <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/EC_Stats_9_January_2009.pdf">EC
stats presentation</a>.</p>
<h3>Personnel changes</h3>
<p>SE/EE: Adam Boyle replaced Bryn Rahm as Primary Rep for Nortel. <br />
ME: Intel resigned their seat. </p>
<h3>Report on Qisda JSRs </h3>
<p> Patrick reported that Sun is very aware of the situation and that steps are
  being taken to resolve it. He expects to be able to provide more information
soon.</p>
<h3>Private session</h3>
<p>  The ECs then went into private session to discuss the status of the Sun-Apache
  negotations. During this session members had a lively discussion, and made
some proposals that will be brought to the attention of Sun's management.</p>
<h3>JSR 284  </h3>
<p> Greg Czajkowski was unable to attend the meeting to present on JSR 284 (this
  presentation will be rescheduled for a future meeting). Josh Bloch reported
  that the process of finalizing this JSR (dealing with export control and licensing
  issues) was extremely difficult, even for a large company like Google.
  He requested the PMO to provide guidelines for Spec Leads - perhaps with boilerplate
  text.</p>
<p>Patrick asked Josh to send email with more details, and promised
  that the PMO would help. </p>
<h3>Year in review</h3>
<p>Heather delivered the <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/JCP2008.pdf">year
  in review presentation</a>.</p>
<p>Sean ponted out that the membership numbers presumably include individuals
  who are no longer active and asked how we can tell which members are active
  and which are not. He suggested that voting in the elections would be a good
  criterion. Patrick responded that when the new collaboration tools are rolled
  out this would provide another measure of membership activity (participation
  in forums and Wikis). </p>
<p>Wayne asked for a list of inactive JSRs. Heather promised to provide one.</p>
<p>Doug
  Lea pointed out that he participates in several EGs but that the presentation
  states that he serves only on one. Heather promised to follow up on this. Heather
  also agreed to work with Don Deutsch on how to classify the JSRs that were
  previously led by BEA. (It might not be correct to consider all of these as
  now led by Oracle.)</p>
<p>Patrick pointed out that Expert Groups should publish their final materials
  within a reasonable time of JSR approval (the report showed that sometimes
  the delay can be nine months). He suggested that EC members should not approve
  JSRs if the Spec Lead cannot commit to releasing the materials within 3 months,
  and also suggested that perhaps approval should time-out after a certain period
  if the materials have not been published. </p>
<h3>Report on Asia trip</h3>
<p>Patrick delivered a <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/AsiaTripReport.pdf">presentation</a> on
  his recent trip to Asia. He reported that the PMO would investigate ways to
  enable members in Asia, particularly those who are not comfortable speaking
  English, to participate more in the work of the organization.</p>
<h3>Java ME ecosystem discussion </h3>
<p>Sean&nbsp;Sheedy led a discussion about the state of the ME ecosystem (<A HREF="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/Java_ME_Discussion-public.pdf">presentation</a>) based on feedback he has received from developers. He said that people are concerned that Java ME is more focused on feature phones, and
  that other platforms (Symbian, Blackberry, Windows Mobile, Android, iPhone)
  are taking the lead on smartphones.<br />
  <br />
He reported that developers' top three concerns are: </p>
<ul>
  <li>  Fragmentation (device bugs, API interpretations)</li>
  <li>Security issues (certificates, permissions, application testing)</li>
  <li>Marketplace access (app store, common deployment mechanism)<br />
  </li>
</ul>
<p>He pointed out that there are more than 1000 Java ME phone models and that
  the iPhone and Android have a lower barrier to entry for developers. The newer
  open-source based platforms offer more opportunities for developers to participate,
  and they do so enthusiastically. (The Android mailing list gets 300 messages
  a day, whereas the java.net list for Java ME is relatively quiet.)</p>
<p>Members discussed whether ECs are chartered to act as a steward for
  the platform (the Process Document doesn't explicitly state that this is one
of the roles of the EC.) Sean argued that the EC should take the lead. Patrick
  said that he saw  no reason why we shouldn't have Expert Groups (Working Groups)
  that tackle issues or problems, producing whitepapers or plans for action rather
  than simply working on JSRs. </p>
<p>Members discussed the lack of a real platform JSR (MSA is simply an umbrella
JSR that's unable to significantly change the component JSRs).</p>
<p>Returning to the question of what developers are looking for, Sean said that
  they  want to write one application and have it run everywhere.  He argued
  that the JCP is focused on APIs, and to remain competitive with these newer
  platforms it needs to enlarge its scope to address issues in other parts of
  the mobile application ecosystem, such as improving interoperability and unifying
  disparate developer onboarding and application distribution processes.</p>
<p>Cuihtlauac Alvarado pointed out that Java ME is still based on Java SE 1.3.
  Danny suggested that harmonizing Java ME and SE so that ME became a real subset
  of SE, should help. Cuihtlauac pointed out that Sun owns the base platforms
  (CDC and CLDC) and that they haven't taken the lead.</p>
<p>Sean asked the corporate members of the ME EC whether they are still committed
to Java. Orange, Nokia, Ericsson, and RIM all responded positively.</p>
<p>Sean asked again whether the ME EC should be taking more of a lead to address
  the concerns raised by developers, and asked whether it was necessary to change
  the way we do business. Jens Jensen said that the proposals he would make tomorrow
  on Governance would make some recommendations in this area. </p>
<p> Kimmo pointed out that some of the issues Sean raised are being addressed
  by MSA, while others fall outside of the JCP charter (eg, discussions of the
  need for an AppStore). Technical standards provide the foundation on which
  commercial companies can set up such an implementation but business areas fall
  outside the charter.<br />
<br />
Sean asked whether  the EC should be doing more on
the technical side and whether it should  extend its charter
into business areas.<br />
<br />
Cuihtlauac said that he didn't think it would be appropriate for the JCP
to extend into business areas. He did argue for more technical leadership, for
example  suggesting APIs that should
be developed.<br />
<br />
Patrick encourage the EC to take a lead, to issue guidelines, and to point
out where there are missing JSRs, encouraging people to take them on. He suggested
that the Process Document be amended to make it clear that this kind of activity
is in scope for the EC.</p>
<p>  Sean asked whether there is consensus that the platform is valuable,
  that we want to do more in areas that are currently within our charter, and
  that we're willing to consider expanding our charter. He encouraged the EC
  to make a public commitment  to
address these issues by forming a committee to focus on technical issues and
  to address areas that are outside the current purvue of the EC.</p>
<p>The ECs agreed to return to this discussion after the MSA presentation. </p>
<h3>MSA2</h3>
<p>Kay Glahn presented a report on JSR 249: MSA2 (<A HREF="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/MSA_2_Spec_Lead_Presentation_JCP_EC_v1.0.pdf">presentation</a>). He said
  that this JSR is the most significant attempt to address fragmentation in many
  years. The Expert Group is operating in a transparent manner (with an observer
  alias, a discussion forum, and other kinds of outreach) but that even though
  they are now in Public Review they've received very few comments.</p>
<h3>Continuation of Java ME ecosystem discussion </h3>
<p>Members briefly continued the ME ecosystem discussion, addressing the need
  for a long-term roadmap, the need for more interoperability testing to address
  fragmentation, and the need to improve the TCK development process. </p>
<p>Members
  agreed to continue the discussion the following day, and then adjourned.</p>
<h2>Minutes: January 14</h2>
<h3>JCP Party</h3>
<p>Members thanked the PMO for organizing the JCP party at the Computer History
  Museum. A good time was had by all. </p>
<h3>Continuation of Java ME ecosystem discussion </h3>
<p>ME EC members made the following commitments for the  record:</p>
<p>  1) ME EC Reps are committed to the Java ME Platform. They want it to evolve
  and to succeed, and they believe that this is possible.<br />
  <br />
  2) ME EC Reps want to take action within the current charter to help to 
  evolve the platform and to help solve the ecosystem issues. <br />
  <br />
  3) ME EC Reps want to clarify and to extend the charter to make it clear that
  they can and should provide the kind of leadership that 
  many people expect. <br />
  <br />
  Patrick suggested that a suitable next step would be for the ME EC to meet
  and to discuss these items in more detail, working out positive steps that
  can be taken to address them. He suggested an out-of-cycle meeting specifically
  dedicated to ME issues. SE members would be free to attend, but not required
  to do so. He promised to work with Sean and Kay on an agenda, and to schedule
  a meeting to take place shortly after the Mobile World Congress meeting in
  Barcelona. </p>
<p>After further discussion on the ECs' charter, it was agreed that work could
  begin immediately, but that there would be some value to a small revision of
  the charter to make it explicit that it is approprate for the EC to address
  these broader issues.</p>
<h3>Filling Intel's vacated seat</h3>
<p>Patrick addressed the need to fill Intel's vacated seat on the ME EC. He reported
that the Process Document requires us to hold a special election (since this
  resignation ocurred more than three months from the next regularly-scheduled
  election.) However, the cost of having Price Waterhouse Coopers run the election
would be prohibitive. He suggested that we have three alternatives:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Leave the seat vacant until the elections in October (despite the requirement
  in the Process Document)</li>
  <li>The PMO could run an election and provide a mechanism to allow the ECs
  to audit the process.</li>
  <li>Invite Aplix (who came third out of three candidates in the recent elections)
    to fill Intel's seat since they would almost certainly have won it if Intel
    had resigned before rather than after the election.</li>
</ul>
<p>After some discussion members agreed that the second option was the only appropriate
  one (following the required Process). It was pointed out that if only one candidate
  nominated themselves then there would be no need to actually hold the election
  - that candidate would simply be declared the winner.</p>
<p>Doug Lea and Sean Sheedy volunteered to act as the  &quot;audining comittee&quot;.</p>
<p>The PMO committed to start the election process within a couple of weeks. </p>
<h3>Governance Presentation </h3>
<p>Jens Jenssen delivers a <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/Ericsson_JCP_Governance.pdf">presentation
    on governance reform</a>.</p>
<p>After a lengthy discussion members agreed that there is no need to form a
  separate architecture group. Rather, the existing ECs are empowered to address
  architectural and roadmap issues, and they should do so.Where necessary they
  can form working groups, and can call on technical experts. There was agreement
  that those who do guide the direction of the platforms
  need to do so in a more transparent manner. Members also agreed that
  the ECs should reach out more to the membership and the developer community,
  seeking feedback and input from them. EC members also agreed that there is
  great value in direct discussions with Spec Leads, not only after the work
  of the EG is completed, but also during the development of the JSR. </p>
<h3>JSR 215 Maintenance Release</h3>
<p>Patrick and Heather led a discussion on the proposed Maintenance Release for
  JSR 215 (see slides 17 and 18 of the <a href="/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-public/materials/2009-01-1314/PMO-topics-January09.pdf">PMO
  Topics presentation</a>). </p>
<p>Members agreed to form a core Working Group (WG) that would meet regularly
  and that would report back to the full EC. All EC members would be free to
  attend the WG meetings if they wished. Several members volunteered
  for the WG. Heather promised to issue a formal call for volunteers, and to
  run the meetings. The EC agreed that planning for two releases - the first
  to address &quot;low hanging fruit&quot; and the second to address more substantive changes. </p>
<p>Members discussed the reform items listed in the presentation, and added the
  following  suggestions:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Add a &quot;transparency checklist&quot; to the JSR submission template</li>
  <li> Improve TCK
  quality (by requiring the publication of coverage information, and assertion
lists, for example.)</li>
  <li>Temporarily filling vacated seats (such as Intel's)</li>
  <li>Revitalizing elections by ensuring real campaigning <br />
  </li>
  <li>Alternates for individual EC members</li>
  <li>The timing of Maintenance Releases</li>
  <li>The requirement that EGs dissolve themselves when JSRs go final</li>
</ul>
<p> The EC briefly discussed alternates for current Individual EC members and
  found no issue with this. Sean Sheedy said that he believed that C. Enrique
Ortiz would likely be his alternate.</p>
<p>The ECs agreed that the Working Group should meet at least once before the
  next EC meeting. Heather promised to set this up.</p>
<h3>2009 Meeting Schedule </h3>
<p>EC members confirmed the locations and dates for 2009 face-to-face meetings
  in Hursley UK in May (hosted by IBM) and in Princeton New Jersey in September
  (hosted by Siemens). See the <a href="/en/whatsnew/calendar">JCP
  calendar</a> for details. </p>
<h3>Adjourn</h3>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body></html>



<!-- ** BEGIN: footer.jsp ** //-->








</td>
</tr>
</table>

<!-- ** END: Content Table ** //-->

<!-- ** BEGIN: Footer Table ** //-->

<div id="footer" style="clear: both;">
    <div class="footleft">
        <a href="/en/resources/contacts">Contact Us</a>
    </div>
	
    <div class="botbar"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="23" width="1"></div>

    <div class="footleft2">
         &copy; 2019, Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. 
        <a href="/en/home/terms">Terms of Use</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/privacy/index.html">Privacy Policy</a>. <a href="http://www.oracle.com/us/legal/third-party-trademarks/third-party-trademarks-078568.html">Trademarks</a>
    </div>

    <div class="footright">
        <img src="/images/common/logo_oracle_footer.gif" alt="Oracle Corporation" height="22" width="91">
    </div>

    <div style="clear: both;"><img src="/images/spacer.gif" alt="" height="30" width="1"></div>
</div>

<!-- ** END: Footer Table ** //-->



<!-- ** Menu Start ** //-->



</body>
</html>
<!-- ** END: footer.jsp ** //-->

